Original page: https://visibilitygurus.com/blog/how-to-get-more-sales-on-shopify/
-------------------

11 IDEAS TO INCREASE YOUR SALES ON SHOPIFY (WITH STRATEGY)

Shopify opens the gateway to an incredible e-commerce journey, but
strategic differentiation is essential for exponential sales growth.
Otherwise, the market is already crowded, and customers will prefer
only the store that can fulfill their desired product needs. If you
want to find the answer to HOW TO GET SALES ON THE SHOPIFY STORE,
congratulations, you are on the right platform.
Shopify has generated over $700 billion in sales during its 17 years
of operation. If you have a store here, then you can be a beneficiary,
but how? Let’s check it out!
In this blog post, we first discussed the driving factors of sales in
a Shopify store and then shared 11 outstanding ideas to help a Shopify
store owner outshine the competition and generate heavy revenue.
WHAT DRIVES SHOPIFY SALES?
Shopify’s gross merchandise volume (GMV) was $197 billion in 2022,
continuously growing. But what is the reason for the increase?
All store owners start from scratch, but a select few get popularity
and generate record-breaking revenues. Why? It is all because of the
robust strategies which help them build a strong web presence and a
sales champion.
So, time to discuss the supporting factors that drive explosive sales
growth for a store.
     TARGETED TRAFFIC: Sales happen when visitors arriving at a store are
interested in converting into customers. The power of attracting
precision marketing gives loyal customers and better returns for a
store.
     QUALITY OF PRODUCT PAGES: The better the web page quality, the more
the chances of user engagement. Similarly, well-organized product
pages offer smoother navigation and entice customers. 
     USER EXPERIENCE: Proper execution of the store’s web pages ensures
customer retention. Also, it is necessary to optimize them for
different viewing platforms.
Moreover, Shopify stores must have flawless mobile working as shoppers
prefer shopping from mobiles more.
After raising consciousness regarding driving factors, let’s
understand how to use these factors to get sales on a Shopify store. 
SECTION 1- GET MORE TRAFFIC
Channeling traffic is the first step toward achieving the ultimate
goal. Captivating user attention creates the opportunity for growth in
a store. So, there is a need to adopt transformative strategies for
driving traffic and converting that into revenue. 
Let’s dig into more.
SEO
The first and one of the most effective key strategies for ensuring
long-term results is Search Engine Optimization, i.e., SEO. It
attracts organic traffic for a store and is a cost-effective strategy.
Moreover, Shopify is SEO-friendly, enabling easy implementation of
various upgrading techniques, such as On-page, Off-page, and technical
optimization. Using them correctly ensures that all store pages are
indexed and easily discoverable on search engines. 
So, anyone searching for a way to connect their store with the right
audience should go for SEO.
PAID ADS
Another but costly way to reach niche traffic is creating paid
advertising campaigns. The method ensures reaching a broad audience by
promoting store products through various channels.
Google Ads, PPC (pay-per-click) campaigns, and Social Media
advertising (Facebook and Instagram ads) are the popular paid ad
options to target and engage potential customers for a Shopify
store. 
Additionally, using this method, one can narrow down the audience for
their store based on interests and behavior. So, create compelling ad
content that can encourage clicks. 
However, paid ads are beneficial only when the store makes more money
than spending on them to drive traffic.
EMAIL MARKETING
Email outreach is in trend to pull the maximum value of the existing
traffic in a store. The strategy promotes products, engages
subscribers, drives conversions, and helps nurture customer
relationships with the store. 
Steps involving email marketing are:
     Building email list
     Segmentation of email list
     Creating compelling email content
     Email deliverability
Apart from following the above-mentioned actions, one can personalize
emails and include clear CTAs. It will help in creating an effective
email campaign for a store.
BLOG SECTION
One can create blog posts related to store products with the motive of
creating sales and awareness among people. It will reach out to the
knowledge seekers and could solve customer queries, if any, related to
items. 
Moreover, valuable and informative content can be shared with
potential audiences. One can establish their store as a trusted
resource in the niche by offering helpful tips, insights, and industry
news.
SOCIAL MEDIA
Last but not the least way to attract traffic for a store is through
social media. One can create compelling and shareable content that
resonates with their target audience. It would be best to grab
customers’ attention and encourage shopping if done consistently.
So, these are some ways to attract traffic to a Shopify store. But, if
there is a good target market already yet lesser sales comparatively,
here is the following section.
SECTION 2 – IMPROVE PRODUCT PAGES
The products featured on a Product page are true reflections of a
store. A customer first explores this page to look for the items they
need. Highlighting them correctly can greatly benefit any business
store. 
 Let’s see how one can improve the product pages of a Shopify
store.
PRODUCT DESCRIPTIONS
If products are presented through unique, compelling, and
user-oriented descriptions, they are likelier to sell. Google and
customers both prefer purchasing items with such described
descriptions.
 product descriptions 
_DESCRIPTION OF A PRODUCT OFFERED BY A SHOPIFY STORE,” STUDIO
PROPER.”_
Some of its benefits are:
     Inform, educate, and persuade consumers
     Differentiate from competitors
     Reduce product returns and disappointments
QUALITY IMAGES AND VIDEOS
High-quality visuals on the product page, such as clear and vibrant
images and videos, quickly catch customers’ attention. Showcasing
items in well-lit settings and with clarity convinces customers to
purchase them.
 quality images and videos 
Its benefits include:
     A better understanding of products
     Product differentiation
     Brand recognition
USE PRODUCT TAGS
To organize products in a Shopify store, one can use product tags.
These will ensure the smooth journey of the purchaser and help in the
internal linking of multiple items or collections inside the store.
Other advantages include:
     Streamlined inventory management
     Helpful in marketing campaigns
     Enhanced Searchability
CUSTOMER REVIEWS AND TESTIMONIALS
Adding social proof is a great way to convince new customers to
purchase from a store. It helps them determine whether the products
will be useful for them or not. 
 customer reviews and testimonials 
Check other favorable results mentioned below:
     Enhances store’s credibility
     Influences purchase decisions
     Maintains authenticity and transparency
PROVIDE CUSTOMER SERVICE (EVEN BEFORE SOMEONE BUYS)
A store providing excellent customer service before selling products
can earn customers’ trust. Addressing customer queries, providing
product information, and offering personalized recommendations can
contribute to a positive customer experience. Some other advantages
are:
     Reduces purchase anxiety
     Word-of-mouth referrals
     Builds better customer relationships
IMPLEMENT FAQS ON PRODUCT PAGES
Clear and comprehensive FAQs address customers’ concerns or
hesitations while purchasing. Providing the required information
beforehand can save the purchaser’s time and boost conversion rates.
 implement FAQs on product pages 
_ONE CAN USE SUCH FAQS FOR THEIR  STO RE_
 Other benefits include:
     Efficient communication
     Customer empowerment
     Consistent Information
All these efforts to improve product pages can contribute to a
positive customer experience and increase sales and business growth.
If there is good traffic and great product pages on a store, one more
thing is left, i.e., user experience. To make it better, jump to the
next section.
SECTION 3 – GIVE EXCELLENT USER EXPERIENCE
A well-functioning store catalyzes sales. Easy navigation, logical
structure, prompt feedback, and intuitive payment features create a
seamless shopping experience that greatly influences customer
satisfaction. 
Let’s explore some dimensions of user experience:
WEBSITE SPEED
Consumers want to find what they are looking for easily and quickly.
When a store fails to provide a good load speed, they prefer leaving
it without waiting, as many others already provide similar services.
Hence, optimize the store for speed to prioritize users’ time value.
Don’t risk losing revenue due to slow loading times. To improve it,
focus on:
     Reducing the complexity of the site
     Considering a faster theme framework
     Monitoring website performance regularly
CONVERSION RATE OPTIMIZATION (CRO)
Conversion Rate Optimization can be conducted to optimize the entire
selling process. User behavior analysis, identifying barriers to
conversion, and efforts to improve them are some steps to optimize the
user experience.
Some steps that can help in improvement are:
     Clear CTAs
     A/B testing
     Compelling value proposition
BETTER CHECKOUT EXPERIENCE
Every step counts in the sales journey. From seamless navigation and
clear shipping details to easy order previews and quick form fields,
ensure a smooth shopping experience for customers.
It can be further improved with:
     Guest checkout option
     Multiple payment options
     Security assurance to customers
Furthermore, operational simplicity, intuitive menus, clean design,
and data security are essential for an exceptional user experience.
What is left if traffic, product pages, and user experience are all
well-optimized? Freak not; stores generally neglect some other
specific dimensions. Pay attention to the next segment for an
improvement in the desired action.
SECTION 4 – CONVERT PEOPLE TO MONEY
Optimizing already mentioned aspects of a store may not be enough to
unlock its full sales potential. So, to get an answer to how to get
more sales on Shopify, it’s time to implement transformative
strategies that address remaining barriers and help reach the ultimate
goal. 
Let’s explore these strategies and consider giving them a try.
ANALYZE YOUR CURRENT TRAFFIC AND SALES DATA
Make informed decisions by analyzing current traffic and sales data.
It can help to track key metrics like average order value, bounce
rate, customer lifetime value, and cart abandonment rate. Shopify’s
average customer lifetime value (CLV) is $1,846 (Source: Shopify).
Hence, the indicator is worth paying attention to. 
So, understand customer behavior, identify conversion barriers, and
determine the necessary efforts to reach the store’s goals.
ABANDONED CART EMAILS
The best scheme to re-engage customers who leave their items behind is
abandoned cart emails. It is especially for those users who have
completed all the formalities to make an order, except for hitting the
final button. 
A well-crafted email is required to bring them back to finalize the
purchase process. One should focus on making a convincing template to
implement the strategy. It will help in:
     Recovering lost revenue
     Increase conversion rates
     Customer engagement and retention
UPSELL AND CROSS-SELL
Another targeting strategy could be the addition of cross-selling and
upselling elements. For instance, stores selling health and wellness
products can add supplements or fitness equipment as cross-sell
options.  
Upselling ideas could be the addition of a fitness tracker or fitness
apparel, or healthy snack subscription. 
Here are some benefits of upselling and cross-selling products:
     Increase average order value
     Maximize product exposure 
     Effective promotion of store’s products
OFFER FREE SHIPPING
While pitching for sales, “free shipping” is a powerful
promotional approach. Customers expect it when their orders exceed a
certain dollar amount. So, one can cover that amount in the product
price or offer an up-selling or cross-selling products scheme. 
It will help in:
     Positive brand perception
     Marketing and promotional opportunities
     Enticing international customers
ADD AN AI-POWERED CHATBOT
Try every effort to hold customers going elsewhere. Stay ahead of the
trend with live chat and chatbots for instant customer support. Create
pre-set FAQs and responses, offering round-the-clock live chat
assistance to address customer queries promptly.
 add an AI powered chatbot 
Its addition can:
     Offer multilingual support for customers
     Personalized interaction with customers
     Quick and efficient responses
As reported by a study, Shopify’s average order value (AOV) is $79
(Source: Shopify). Focusing on it would be wise, as one can learn
about customer spending behavior and insight into marketing
strategies’ effectiveness through it. Make sure you are improving
overall revenue and profitability by considering AOV.
HOW BRANDING PLAYS A ROLE?
Consumers gravitate towards branded stores in today’s market as they
believe in getting better quality there, in comparison to a basic
Shopify store with a few product pages. Many reasons support their
belief like:
     DISTINCT RECOGNITION: Branded stores stand out, leaving a lasting
impression on customers. They have a unique identity and establish
themselves as reputable and distinctive.
     EMOTIONALLY COMPELLING: Brands can evoke strong emotions in
customers. They create connections beyond mere transactions, building
deep and meaningful relationships based on shared values and
experiences.
     LONG-TERM COMMITMENt: Choosing a branded store ensures a long-term
connection. Customers trust the brand’s consistency and reliability,
leading to loyalty and repeated engagement.
By embracing branding, businesses can elevate themselves from ordinary
Shopify sites to influential brands that captivate customers, foster
emotional connections, and establish enduring relationships.
So, with Google’s EEAT (Experience, Expertise, Authoritativeness and
trustworthiness), focus on building a brand instead of an ordinary
Shopify store as it will attract more conversion opportunities.
STRATEGY TO GET MORE SALES ON SHOPIFY
Here, we come up with a new angle, sharing some more tactics to get
more sales for a Shopify store. Following these tactics can help stand
out from the crowd, an opportunity to grow and scale the store.
BUILD A BRAND
A brand is a foundation that connects customers to a business. Unlike
an ordinary Shopify store, building a strong brand attracts new
customers and fosters loyalty. Make branding an integral part of your
marketing strategy at every step to create a lasting Shopify store.
INVEST IN SEO – GET SHOPIFY AUDIT
Investing in SEO brings unmatched advantages. It ensures sustainable
visibility, improves user experience, indexes the store’s pages, and
provides long-term ROI organically. 
One can try the Shopify audit, resolve lesser traffic problems, and
generate heavy revenues for the store.
KEEP IN TOUCH WITH EXISTING CUSTOMERS
Staying connected with existing customers is as important as
attracting new ones. Having trust in the store’s products,
maintaining contact, and nurturing relationships can lead to repeat
purchases and opportunities for growth.
OFFER DISCOUNTS TO KEEP THEM COMING BACK
To nurture long-term relationships with customers, offer them
exclusive discounts for future orders as a token of appreciation. This
will foster their loyalty towards the store. 
Customers like to go for shopping with a coupon code. As they enjoy
getting good deals. Also, if we pay heed to a study, Shopify’s
Average Revenue Per User (ARPU) is $1846(Source: Shopify). So, to
improve customer satisfaction, pay attention to such metrics.
FAQS
     What common mistakes do people make when trying to get sales on
Shopify?
ANS.  I) Not having a clear call-to-action: A strong call-to-action
is essential in any sales process. Without it, customers may not know
what to do next or how to make a purchase. Make sure your
call-to-action is clear and easy to understand.
II) Not offering discounts or promotions: Offering discounts or
promotions is a great way to entice customers to purchase.
      Where can I find potential customers for my Shopify store?
 ANS. Finding potential customers for your Shopify store can be
daunting, but it doesn’t have to be. With the right strategy and
tools, you can find the customers you need to drive sales and grow
your business.
First, it’s important to understand who your target customers are.
What are their interests? What do they need? What do they want?
Knowing these things will help you target the right people and create
content that resonates with them.
     What are the best Shopify themes for sales?
ANS. When choosing the best Shopify themes for sales, there are a few
key factors to consider. First, ensure the theme is aesthetically
pleasing and easy to navigate. It should also be optimized for mobile
devices, as many customers shop on their phones and tablets.
Additionally, the theme should be optimized for search engine
optimization (SEO) so your store can rank higher in search engine
results.
(Give Theme Names as Examples)
     How much money do Shopify stores make?
ANS. An average Shopify store makes about $2000 per month. Shopify’s
data shows that 81% of merchants are profitable after two years, and
the average annual revenue for a Shopify store is $155,000.
CONCLUSION
Getting more traffic on Shopify is easy. Just follow the above
sections in a step-by-step way. Thank us later.
Level up your Shopify Business
Join over 30+ Shopify stores already growing with Visibility Gurus
Audit My StoreContact the Experts
Powering Shopify Success through SEO Excellence

