
Original page: https://wisepops.com/blog/sales-promotion-examples
-------------------
20+ SALES PROMOTION EXAMPLES  +DEFINITION & EXPERT IDEAS 
Attractive sales promotions to engage customers_.
This is must-have part of any successful online business strategy.
Knowing how to create compelling, creative, and engaging sales
promotions can make a difference for any business.
If you’re here to see how successful businesses promote sales,
we’ve got an impressive list of sales promotion examples for you.
JUMP TO CONTENT SECTIONS:
DEFINITION OF A SALES PROMOTION
EXAMPLES OF SALES PROMOTIONS
WHERE TO SHARE SALES PROMOTIONS
TIPS FOR SALES PROMOTIONS
SHARE SALES PROMOS AND PERSONALIZED OFFERS. ADD UNIQUE SHOPIFY
DISCOUNTS. TRIPLE CONVERSIONS!
Try Wisepops free
 sales popup with targeting and results 
WHAT IS A SALES PROMOTION?
A sales promotion is a marketing message designed to add value to a
promotional offer for product or service to encourage customers to
engage and buy. The key element here is “add value,” which means
giving extra benefits such as prizes, discounts, or free shipping to
reduce the total cost of an order.
Specific types of sales promotions work better to help achieve
different marketing goals.
For example, a sitewide sale like this one might help sell faster:
 ecommerce sales promotion 
SALES PROMOTION EXAMPLES
“FREE GIFT WITH PURCHASE” PROMOTION 
PRE-LAUNCH PROMOTION CAMPAIGN
BRANDED BUNDLE OFFER
DISCOUNT FOR NEW CUSTOMERS
END-OF-SEASON SALE
LIMITED-TIME PROMO OFFER
CLEARANCE SALE
NEWSLETTER SIGNUP DISCOUNT
PRIZED PROMOTION (SPIN THE WHEEL)
SPIN-THE-WHEEL PROMOTION
LIMITED-TIME SALE
HOLIDAY SALE PROMOTION (4TH OF JULY)
GIFT CARD PROMOTIONAL DEAL
FLASH SALE
“BUY ONE, GET ONE FREE” SALE 
LIMITED-TIME “BUY TWO GET TWO” SALE
LIMITED-TIME FREE SHIPPING PROMOTION
MEMBERSHIP REWARD PROMOTION
BIRTHDAY SALE
SITEWIDE SALE
FREE SAMPLE
1. “FREE GIFT WITH PURCHASE” PROMOTION
The “free gift with purchase” promotion is simple: a customer
spends a requisite amount and gets a gift as a thank-you. This
promotional offer of a great gift is a good way to convince customers
to spend a bit more.
Let’s look at this promotion example below from ActiveSkin.
The brand gives away a gel mask, which is a nice addition to the
skincare products it sells. Many people would appreciate this offer,
as it gives them a little something they can use with other products.
 ActiveSkin sales example source: www.activeskin.com.au
ActiveSkin used a website popup to share this promotional deal. The
popup worked well to maximize the deal’s reach, since popups could
be displayed on most pages.
To make this promotion idea work:
CHOOSE A VALUABLE GIFT. It should have enough value for customers to
motivate them to make a purchase (like one of the best-selling items).
SET A REASONABLE SPENDING LIMIT. If your average order value is around
$50, consider setting the limit at around $70 to encourage more
spending.
KEEP ORDER WEIGHT UNAFFECTED BY THE GIFT. Large items could require
larger boxes, which increase the order’s weight and shipping costs.
HOW TO CREATE THIS TYPE OF SALES PROMOTION CAMPAIGN
You can create similar “free gift with purchase” promotions by
using our own POPUP BUILDER. This means you set the time when visitors
will see them on a page of your choice.
 popups templates hero visual 
Share your sales promotions with popups. Use targeting to choose
visitor groups to display the promotions to. Share discount codes and
drive traffic to pages with sales.
➡️ GET STARTED
2. PRE-LAUNCH PROMOTION CAMPAIGN
Raise product awareness before the product becomes available—
That’s the main goal of this kind of promotional campaign. Online
businesses such as retailers use these campaigns to build excitement
around new products and secure some pre-orders.
Asphalte uses pre-launch marketing to win customers. In their
promotional message below, the brand does a great job of making an
announcement that’s short and sweet. It’s like saying, _“Folks,
we’ve got something great, and many are signing up. You in?”_
 Asphalte promotion message 
For this promotional campaign, Asphalte used on-site notifications:
Website visitors can see them by clicking on a loudspeaker icon
located near the main menu items.
Once clicked, the icon shows a small menu of notifications. 
 onsite notifications website visitor engagement 
HOW TO CREATE THIS PROMOTIONAL CAMPAIGN:
Sharing product or sale pre-launch messages is easy with ONSITE
NOTIFICATIONS.
There’s no coding or design experience needed, so you can get a
quick start on this one: HOW TO USE ONSITE NOTIFICATIONS.
Try onsite notifications
 asphalte 
Results of Asphalte's campaign: visitors who click on-site
notifications are 3.5 TIMES MORE LIKELY TO CONVERT AND 2.5 TIMES MORE
LIKELY TO BROWSE OTHER PAGES
More: ASPHALTE CASE STUDY
3. BRANDED BUNDLE OFFER
This example of product promotion is similar to the “free gift with
purchase.” 
This time, though, the business promises a branded product bundle
composed of two items for orders over €100. With this type of
promotion, the seller is trying to get people talking about the deal
and encouraging visitors to browse the product range.
 Bundle sales offer 
Once again, this brand is using a website popup to share this sales
promotion example. Popup forms are great for this kind of promo
because you can choose to display them in a specific timeframe (the
duration of the promo, for example). 
HOW TO CREATE A SIMILAR PROMO CAMPAIGN
Having this type of sales promo campaign on your website can take less
than 30 minutes. All that’s required is creating a popup that shows
visitors the offer.
No experience creating popups?
Check out a simple guide: HOW TO ADD POPUPS TO SHOPIFY
 emoi 
Product bundling case study
See how this online apparel store promoted a product bundling offer
and increased average order size:
EMOI EMOI CASE STUDY
4. DISCOUNT COUPON FOR FIRST-TIME CUSTOMERS
Research shows that a discount makes 41% of online shoppers buy. Many
of them are first-time customers, which suggests that discounts as
sales promotions can help you build a customer base.
This is exactly what MTMV Watches is doing.
 email signup popup with discount 
What we like about this promotion idea is how the popup conveys the
information. The main message, the discount amount, and the discount
code are bolded, so visitors are likely to understand the message
without reading the whole thing.
HOW TO CREATE THIS PROMO:
Make a discount popup and show it only to new visitors. In Wisepops,
our own popup app, this is easy—just choose “new visitors” in
the display frequency”settings:
 wisepops-targeting 
Related:
DISCOUNT POPUP: EXAMPLES & HOW TO MAKE
DISCOUNT CODE AND COUPON IDEAS
HOW TO CREATE UNIQUE SHOPIFY DISCOUNT CODES
5. END-OF-SEASON SALE
_“Looking to get your wardrobe refreshed for the summer? Now’s the
time!”_
This is what our next sales promotion example is all about. It
announces an end-of-season sale, which is a way to make space in
inventory for new products.
Atterley uses an ecommerce popup to share the sale promotion example.
Note the two buttons leading to women’s and men’s products—a
great decision to make product exploration easier.
 end of season discount popup 
Since end-of-season sales are typically held on the biggest sale days
of the year, start to promote it at least a week before. This way,
you’ll raise awareness and build some anticipation.
Also, use all available channels to spread the word: emails, website
popups, ads, text messages, etc. In Atterley’s case, the brand’s
marketing team used a website popup—it’s safe to assume it was
displayed to every new visitor for maximum exposure.
Strong, persuasive copywriting can also maximize engagement with sales
promotions. These guides should be helpful with that:
TIPS FOR ECOMMERCE COPYWRITING
100 POWER WORDS FOR MARKETING
HOW TO WRITE PRODUCT DESCRIPTIONS 
6. LIMITED-TIME PROMO OFFER
In this sales promotion example, ActiveSkin tries to capitalize on the
expertise of its founder. The brand offers to save 15% on select
products, and entices viewers by specifying that the sale is
time-limited. This helps drive urgency.
Note that the message says “Limited time only,” without mentioning
the specific timeframe. This could be yet another way to grab
customers’ interest and have them consider learning about the offer.
 Limited time promo offer popup 
If a business’s owner is an influencer, or it uses influencers to
promote products, such a strategy could attract conversions.
Creating a similar promotional deal is super easy. An important thing
is to remember to add the expiration date!
Product promotion tips:
HOW TO PROMOTE PRODUCTS ON YOUR WEBSITE (includes sales, bundling,
BOGO, and other ways + examples)
GUIDE TO TIME-LIMITED OFFERS (with examples and expert tips)
7. CLEARANCE SALE PROMOTION
Need to get rid of excess inventory?
How about doing that + increasing your sales?
If that sounds good, consider a clearance sale. This promotion example
involves selling excess inventory at reduced prices. A carefully
planned and a well-promoted clearance sale can boost traffic at your
store by attracting bargain hunters.
Here’s an example of this special offer:
Lulu Guinness announced a clearance sale with this promotional message
example. The brand’s website used it as a banner to attract
visitors’ attention:
 Sales promotion popup 
Something eye-catching about this sale promotion example is the
creative usage of fonts. The main message is displayed in bigger fonts
to convey the main point effectively. Some of the extra info uses
different fonts.
Another way to grab visitors’ attention and make a clearance sale
promotion better is by adding numbers.
Examples of ways to include numbers in  promotional messages:
_“Clearance sale! Shop 1,000 styles!”_
_“5 Days Only: Up to 70% Off Clearance sale”_
_“Clearance sale: 40% to 70% off 500+ epic items!”_
 Shop now sales popup 
Start Getting More Sales
Make targeted campaigns in minutes. Drive traffic to your offers.
Share discount codes.
➡️ LEARN MORE
8. NEWSLETTER SIGNUP DISCOUNT
We see these newsletter signup forms everywhere.
Signing up for an email newsletter doesn’t cost the customer
anything, but getting a discount allows them to save money. Simple as
that.
That’s why ecommerce brands use newsletter signup promotions to get
visitors’ emails with incentives such as early access to sales
announcements, special discounts, VIP rewards, and more.
Example:
California Olive Ranch offers a 10% discount for newsletter signup.
Once again, the brand uses a website popup.
 discount for newsletter signup popup 
Want tips on how to generate more leads with email popups?
These EMAIL POPUP EXAMPLES AND TIPS should be helpful.
9. PRIZE GIVEAWAY PROMOTION (SPIN-THE-WHEEL POPUP)
We know that shoppers like it when businesses “gamify” their
experiences. After all, people love anything interactive—games,
quizzes, generators, calculators, etc.
No surprise that gamification has made its way to product promotions.
Spin-the-wheel popups are one of the best examples of gamified
experiences, with many online stores using them to generate leads.
Faguo is one of those brands.
This French clothing company promotes a product contest with a
spin-the-wheel popup. Any visitor can enter: all they have to do is
type in their name and email.
 spin the wheel popup from Faugo Faguo did a great job taking care of
two critical aspects of contests: 
_Simple entry _and_ valuable prize_. 
No surprise that this promotional campaign GENERATES 5,000 LEADS every
month. Even better, Faguo used the wheel to gamify the contest
experience—another major reason for the campaign’s success. 
HOW TO CREATE YOUR OWN SPIN-THE-WHEEL CAMPAIGNS TO PROMOTE SALES:
Online stores create similar promotions with SPIN-THE-WHEEL POPUPS.
Creating one is similar to customizing a marketing email: just add
content and activate.
Make wheel popup now
Or use these 10 PROVEN GIVEAWAY IDEAS for inspiration!
10. SPIN-THE-WHEEL PROMOTION
“A wheel of happiness.” 
That’s what Cabaia called its spin-the-wheel popup campaign. 
This digitally native brand that sells cruelty-free accessories is
running a promotional campaign where customers can win free products,
credits, free delivery, and other perks.
Unlike Faguo’s, Cabaia’s spin-the-wheel-powered campaign requires
only an email to enter. And a unique draw for site visitors is that,
it’s possible to win a prize right away!
 spin the wheel promotion popup 
If you’d like to engage website visitors with a similar promotion,
we recommend reading the BEST PRACTICES FOR SPIN-TO-WIN POPUPS. One
practice is to use spin-to-win promotions to increase participation in
holiday sales and giveaways.
Want tips from a conversion expert?
Watch this video by Lisa Fockens, our Head of Customer Success, who
will show you how to create high-converting popups.
Cabaia’s effective business model (a digitally native brand) secured
the company €700,000 in investments.
More details about digitally native brands and how they work:
DIGITALLY NATIVE VERTICAL BRANDS (DNVBS): AN ENTREPRENEUR’S GUIDE.
11. LIMITED-TIME SALE
Few sales promotion activities are as tried and tested as limited-time
offers like sales and discount coupons.
The idea is simple: add a time restriction, which acts as a purchase
trigger. Ecommerce brands have used this sales promo idea forever
because it appeals to customers’ fear of missing out on a good deal.
Limited-time sale promotion example:
Bobonos used this sales promo below for the 4th of July. 
The countdown timer gives a compelling reason to purchase by driving
urgency. Note how the two most important elements—the timer and the
“Use Code Firework” CTA button—are given a contrasting black
color to attract attention.
 limited time sales popup 
One piece of advice to maximize profits from this sale idea:
Run your time-limited promo for a shorter duration (24 or 48 hours) if
you have over 1,000 monthly website visitors. If you’re a new brand,
consider using promos of longer durations (over 48 hours).
Research on coupons found this technique to be effective because it
gives customers of less-known brands more time for consideration.
12. HOLIDAY SALE PROMOTION (4TH OF JULY)
Taking a smart approach to sales promotions means having different
promotional deals up your sleeve, ready to be used when needed.
Holidays are the time when sales are called for, so your brand should
be ready.
Independence Day, for one, is a great opportunity to let your
customers snag discounts. Making a sale promotion for this holiday,
just like for any other holiday, requires a concise message and
interesting visual.
Here’s a 4th of July creative sales promotion example from Pura
Vida. The brand uses an awesome visual to share the sale info and
attract attention.
 Holiday sales promotion example 
Want to maximize sales from holiday sale campaigns?
Consider this:
Run an ad campaign to drive traffic to your website. Then, use website
popups and banners to share the news and generate leads. 
Since many visitors won’t be ready to buy right away (some are just
browsing, others compare costs or look for discounts, etc), popups
could share awareness of the sale.
More tips to make sales during the holiday period:
ABANDONED CART RECOVERY APPS FOR SHOPIFY
13. GIFT CARD PROMOTIONAL DEAL
Selling gift cards?
If yes, then this promotional offer example should be useful for you.
Consider offering a discount for a gift card purchase between April
and June. This specific period saw the most orders in 2020 and was
partially driven by many customers avoiding in-store shopping.
Here’s an example of such a promotional message.
H&M sent this promo campaign via email, offering a 10% discount for
gift cards. The message offers a simple explanation for
customers—another best practice in creating effective sales
promotions.
 Gift card promotional deal popup example 
What’s also smart about this promotional offer is that the brand
gives ideas for potential recipients of gift cards (“Think grads,
dads and Geminis.”) Another thing to note is that this sales
promotion example is also timed.
Tips to increase sales of gift cards:
Launch sales campaigns around holidays.
Use onsite marketing tools (embeds, popups, notification feed, etc.).
Share sales announcements via emails.
Talk about gift card promotions on social media.
14. FLASH SALE
A flash sale is another type of promotional deal that focuses on a
sense of urgency. It’s a perfect sales promotion idea for retailers
selling hundreds of items because it could help sell faster.
Example:
Swanson Vitamins offers up to 50% off deals—but only for 24 hours.
It’s a great promo to attract both new and existing customers.
 flash sale popup example 
Flash sales could work well if done on a set schedule. For example,
your online store can have a flash sale once every one or two months
depending on your preferences.
Want to sell more with flash sales?
THIS GUIDE TO FLASH SALES will help. Includes step-by-step
instructions and examples of flash sales.
15. “BUY ONE, GET ONE FREE” SALE PROMOTION
This promotional deal offers a free product if a customer buys one
item. Brands use these campaigns to create a sense of urgency,
generate sales, or clear inventory.
Here’s an example of this type of sale promotion:
Flat Tummy Co. advertises a “buy one, get one free” offer with
this message. The main value proposition is written in the biggest
font to convey the meaning, and a compelling text motivates customers
to act.
 Buy one get one free popup sale promotion 
Note that the brand uses a countdown timer to increase customer
engagement with this sale promotion example. If you’d like to add
one, too, consider creating a popup with a timer for product pages to
drive urgency.
Here’s what this campaign might look like.
 timer popup example 
And here’s the best part:
Such popups can generate up to 41% HIGHER CVR than versions without
the countdowns. That’s how powerful the sense of urgency can be when
applied appropriately.
Most popup software allows adding countdown timers to popups. Find
more info about how you can use them for sales: TOP-RATED POPUP APPS
for ecommerce websites.
16. LIMITED-TIME “BUY TWO GET TWO” PROMOTION
_“Let’s take the ‘buy one get one’ sale one step further!”_
That’s what marketing folks at Blume probably thought when making
their next storewide sale. Instead of giving away one free product,
they’re giving two.
The result is this sales promotion example.
 buy 2 get 1 free sales popup example from Blume 
One thing customers like about this promotional deal: it’s a better
value for the money. 
Paying a lower price is one of the most important things when it comes
to getting the best value, so many customers could be enticed to buy.
Blume converts up to 5% of website visitors with popups like this
☝️
Learn more: BLUME’S ONSITE MARKETING STRATEGY
17. LIMITED-TIME FREE SHIPPING
Free shipping is a great way to increase sales. 
Here’s why: 53% of online shoppers say that free delivery is the top
reason why they decide to buy. That’s why customers see examples of
sale promotions involving free shipping almost everywhere these days.
Here’s one of them:
EnChroma announces a free shipping promotion in this message. The
brand also adds a sense of urgency by incorporating two fear factors:
a two-day deadline and a text reminding customers that Father’s Day
is approaching fast.
 Limited time free shipping popup Ecommerce brands often use free
shipping to increase sales and reduce shopping cart abandonment around
holidays. Common places where they mention free shipping include
abandoned shopping cart subject lines, email messages, website
banners, and ads.
18. MEMBERSHIP REWARD PROMOTION
What keeps shoppers loyal to brands?
Value for money.
Makes sense, right? Customers want the best possible deals, so
businesses try to show that they have them.
Here’s how they are doing it.
In this sales promotion example, YakGrills uses a loyalty program to
show how to get the best value.
 Membership reward notification feed message 
One impressive thing about this promotional campaign example is the
description. 
The text is super concise, benefit-oriented, and well-organized thanks
to the bullet list structure, so customers can learn about the
advantages in seconds. 
Related: EXAMPLES OF EFFECTIVE LOYALTY PROGRAMS
19. BIRTHDAY SALE
Birthdays are an excellent reason to send a special discount coupon
and help customers celebrate with some shopping. 
Many ecommerce sellers share such coupons via emails. Birthday emails
perform amazingly well, generating 481% higher transaction rates and
342% higher revenues per message. That’s why many brands include
birthday emails in their marketing campaigns.
Spalding, for example, shares this birthday sale promotion with 20%
off any time:
 Birthday sales coupon code example 
So, a birthday sale promotion can be a nice treat for both the
customer and the business. Try this technique, too, and share birthday
discount coupons with customers to increase their engagement.
Email marketing offers countless opportunities for promotional
activities to increase sales.
Get tips to build your own strategy:
CASE STUDY: HOW ONE BUSINESS ACCELERATED EMAIL LIST BUILDING BY 50%
HOW TO COLLECT EMAILS FROM VISITORS
HOW TO BUILD AN EMAIL LIST  +EXAMPLES 
20. SITEWIDE SALE
A sitewide sale promotion advertises a sale that includes all (or
most) products in an online store. Businesses hold site-wide sales
between seasons to sell out inventory or simply to increase their
sales.
Here’s how Helm Boots informed customers about its sitewide sale.
This promotion sample effectively conveys the message and encourages
shopping by mentioning free shipping and returns.
 site wide sale promotion example 
What’s also intriguing about this sales promotional message example
is the question. 
The last sentence of the text below the visuals asks customers:
“_What are you waiting for?_” which encourages them to check out
the deals.
21. FREE SAMPLE
Offering a free sample means giving a customer a chance to try
something when they’re likely to hesitate. This sales promotion is
popular among online businesses selling complex products or
subscription plans.
Here’s such a sales promotion example from Sundays For Dogs. The
popup is located on the product page, so it’s shown to customers
considering buying.
 free sample promotion As you can see, the visitor can click the
button to claim the free sample. Just like that, this sales promotion
example helps the brand introduce their product to customers.
WHERE TO SHARE YOUR SALES PROMOTIONS
The most effective channels for marketing sales promotions for online
businesses are:
Marketing emails 👇
 email sales examples 
Also—
Homepage banners and bars 👇
 website bar with sales offer  thanksgiving popup with sales offer 
Next—
Website popups 👇
 Notification feed with sales offer 
And of course—
SMS messages 👇
 sms with a sales offer 
And last but not least—
Paid ads 👇
 google ads with sales offer example 
SALES PROMOTION TIPS FOR ONLINE BUSINESSES
The sales promotion examples we’ve reviewed gave us practical tips
on how to market deals. 
Let’s summarize these tips and best practices:
OFFER REAL VALUE. The value added to a product or service should be
valuable enough to motivate and encourage customers to convert.
TRY FREE SHIPPING. As mentioned, research shows that 53% of customers
consider free delivery to be the top reason to buy.
DEFINE A GOAL FOR EACH PROMOTION. Every sales promotion must be
related to one or more marketing goals. A discount-based promotion,
for example, can help increase short-term sales but undermines brand
value if used long term.
CREATE A SENSE OF URGENCY OR SCARCITY. These are two powerful
techniques to increase customer engagement and conversions, so try
them in promotional deals.
TEST DIFFERENT WAYS OF PRESENTING SALES PROMOTIONS. Consider sharing
sales promotions with popups, on-site notifications, emails, text
messages, and other marketing channels to see what customers respond
to best.
If you'd like to get help with setting up your marketing or sale
strategy, sometimes referring to experts is a good idea.
Here are five full-service promoting agencies if you're interested.
SALES PROMOTION EXAMPLES: OVER TO YOU!
Sales promotions can be powerful short-term tactical weapons for
online businesses. Applying appropriate promotions to achieve
marketing goals is an important consideration to make them generate
conversions.
Again, the most commonly used sales promotions are product giveaways,
various types of discounts, BOGO, B2GO, flash sales, product bundle
offers, free shipping, and even pre-launch sales. Choosing one depends
on your business and current sales strategy.
We hope these examples of successful sales promotions will give you a
much better idea of how to use them effectively for your own business.
No one says today’s market is easy—but that doesn’t mean that
your marketing can’t be.
Pick a couple of ideas that complement your business style and put
them to work for you. Good luck!
