Original page: https://wisepops.com/blog/how-to-promote-a-product
-------------------

HOW TO PROMOTE A PRODUCT: 16 WAYS  PROVEN & NEW 
Here, we’ll look at 16 effective ways to promote a product. 
Each way comes with an example to show you how others do product
launches and promotions to boost customer engagement and revenue. 
GET STARTED:
BUILDING A STRATEGY TO PROMOTE A PRODUCT
WAYS TO PROMOTE PRODUCTS  LIST 
PROMOTE NEW PRODUCTS WITH ONSITE NOTIFICATIONS, POPUPS, EMBEDS, AND
BARS
Learn more 
 notification popup 
Running an online store? These will also help with product promotions:
How to get Shopify sales (+examples)
Top Shopify stores (+revenues)
How to add pop up on Shopify (step-by-step)
BUILDING A STRATEGY TO PROMOTE A PRODUCT
You can divide all ways to promote a product into two areas: 
ONSITE (on your website)
OFFSITE (outside of your website)
You can start by trying different combinations:
Paid ads or social media (OFFSITE) > sales promotions, discounts,
product bundling, and/or popups (ONSITE)
And getting more specific:
A popup with a special offer or a BOGO deal (ONSITE) > promoting
products by sending marketing emails to those who signed up with that
popup (OFFSITE).
Here are all major ways to promote products:
    ONSITE (ON WEBSITE)
    OFFSITE (OUTSIDE OF WEBSITE)
    Popups 
    Email marketing (product emails)
    Onsite notifications
    Influencer marketing
    BOGO offers
    Social media marketing
    Product bundling
    Paid ads
    Product giveaway
    Free sample 
    SMS discount coupons
    Collaboration with other brands
    Sale promotions
    Product quiz 
    Customer reviews
    Blog content
Next, you’ll see why these ideas to promote products are worth
trying for your business.
HOW TO PROMOTE A PRODUCT 
ONSITE NOTIFICATIONS
PRODUCT-SPECIFIC POPUPS 
DISCOUNT POPUPS
BOGO OFFERS
PRODUCT BUNDLING
COLLABORATION WITH OTHER BRANDS
PRODUCT GIVEAWAY
SMS DISCOUNT COUPONS
FREE SAMPLE 
SALE PROMOTIONS
PRODUCT QUIZ 
PRODUCT EMAIL
SOCIAL MEDIA MARKETING
INFLUENCER MARKETING
CUSTOMER REVIEWS
BLOG CONTENT
1. ONSITE NOTIFICATIONS
Having onsite notifications on a website means you can promote your
products on a homepage with a social media-like feed with messages. 
Here’s how onsite notifications work: 
They appear as a bell in your website’s header 
Visitors notice the bell (it has a red circle with the number of
unread messages)
Visitors click the bell and find the product
Visitors click the link in the notification and go to a product page
This is how promoting new products with onsite notifications looks
like (courtesy: Asphalte, one of the most successful fashion brands in
France). The visitor clicks the “bell,” browses the feed, and
chooses a product to check out:
 onsite notifications website visitor engagement 
The benefits of product promotion with onsite notifications:
Clean homepage
No interference with the brand experience
You let visitors discover products on their own
Drive potential customers directly to your products
_“ Onsite notifications  are fairly unobtrusive - it’s there but
it's not in-your-face and does not interfere with the brand experience
on our homepage...”_
Black Ember, a Shopify store
Last but not least—
Onsite notifications are effective: in the case of Asphalte, 11.5% of
visitors who clicked notifications contributed to 42% OF THEIR MONTHLY
REVENUE.
Another business, Black Ember, promotes a limited edition of one of
its best-selling products with this campaign:
 Onsite notification product launch 
In 21 days, this campaign drove 2,059 visitors to that product:
 Onsite notification product launch analytics 
Again, going to the product page was something that visitors decided
on their own after discovering the “bell” in the Black Ember
website’s top menu.  
Both Asphalte and Black Ember, they were able to promote new products
(which makes notifications perfect for fashion marketing) and raise a
lot of awareness among visitors.
You can promote products on your website this way, too. ONSITE
NOTIFICATIONS WORK ON ALL WEBSITES, integrate with popular ecommerce
tools, and have powerful targeting and analytics.
Try notifications free
_No cc needed, unlimited free trial._
 danmodified 
_“Onsite notifications were a significant driver in revenue for the
launch of our new product range and we will be making use of the
notifications for future campaigns and product launches.”_
Dan Mitchell, Ecommerce Manager OddBalls
Also—
Get more details on Black Ember’s campaigns and find out how you can
engage your visitors more effectively right away:
 black ember logo 
How Black Ember drove 2,000+ customers to product pages in 21 days:
PRODUCT PROMOTION CASE STUDY
2. PRODUCT SPECIFIC POPUPS
Product-specific popups are one of the best ways to promote a product
because they focus the attention of customers on specific items. 
Examples:
An email signup popup that focuses a product to motivate visitors to
convert
A popup with a link to drive shoppers to a page with a product
A popup that shows a product only to visitors who viewed it before
Let’s see all of these in action:
Flaus is promoting its product (the world’s first electric flosser!)
with an email signup popup on the homepage. The campaign is featuring
a nice product image, a unique value proposition, and a nice discount:
 flaus product promotion popup 
This product promotion example is great if you, for example, sell one
or a few items.
(By the way, Flaus used Wisepops to make that popup).
Next—
This campaign (a popup for driving traffic) is different. 
Instead of a generic “sign-up-for-our-newsletter” message, this
product popup promotes the item TO THE VISITOR WHO HAS VIEWED THAT
PRODUCT BEFORE. So, it won’t appear, for example, if you visit the
site for the first time.
The visitor can just click Shop Now and go straight to the product:
 product promotion popup 
Showing products to returning visitors like that is easy to do with
PAGE TARGETING.
You just need to add your chosen product page to campaign display
settings in your popup app, for example:
 page targeting 
See how to do PAGE TARGETING
Another advantage of this product promotion popup is the unusual
position—zero interference with the browsing experience.
Many businesses, especially ecommerce websites, advertise products
with similar campaigns, especially shown in unusual positions.
Another example:
Dolce & Gabbana promotes a popular product like that:
 dolce gabbana popup box 
Creating these non-intrusive ecommerce popups is also easy with a good
popup software, and you’ll be able to capture your visitors’
attention and drive traffic to product pages easily.
In fact—
You can choose the position of a product promotion popup with one
click in Wisepops:
 display settings 
If you’d like to try promoting products with popups, there are
plenty of popup software out there. 
But let me recommend WISEPOPS.
Wisepops is made for marketers and business owners—it’s simple to
use and you can create and publish any popup in minutes.
Besides, you get a suite of pro features like unique Shopify discount
codes, A/B testing, targeting of Klaviyo segments, and deep targeting.
Try popups free
_No cc needed, unlimited free trial._
★★★★★
"A brilliant dashboard that helps you create any popup you want within
an hour or even less, it took me 15 min once I knew the offer that I
wanted to show."
_Wisepops review from Capterra _
3. DISCOUNT POPUPS
Unlike product-specific popups, these ones are all about discounts.
While discount popups can be a bit interrupting (that depends on the
display settings, though), they are a proven way to promote products
by giving visitors an incentive.
Example:
Discount popups are a part of the product promotion strategy at Blume,
a successful Shopify store. This one gives 20% off for the first order
(note an image with products, too):
 discount popup 
This way, Blume visitors know right away that they can get a good
deal.
And this strategy works—
Blume CONVERTS 5% OF VISITORS with this campaign (see the case study
below).
There’s also one more reason why this Blume campaign is successful.
If a visitor decides to close the popup and browse products first
(which happens all the time!), they can still easily GET THE DISCOUNT
WHEN THEY NEED IT. 
Here’s how: when they close the popup, it automatically changes into
a very small tab that stays in the left bottom corner of the screen.
If the visitor finds the product they like and wants to get the
discount, all they have to do is click that tab:
 popup with tab 
I won’t go into details but here’s HOW THE TAB WORKS if you’re
interested. Spoiler: you need neither coding nor previous experience
to promote your products like that.
By using the tab, you can promote your products and services with
popups and keep the discounts accessible even after visitors decide to
close them. 
You can get the same results as Blume: SEE WHAT YOU CAN WITH POPUPS.
Or get started with converting your visitors today:
Make a product popup
_No commitment, unlimited free trial_
This step-by-step guide will also be helpful to speed things up: 
HOW TO CREATE DISCOUNT POPUPS
Product promotion case study
Blume converts 5% of visitors using product and sale popups. Learn
more: BLUME CASE STUDY
4. BOGO OFFERS
BOGO (“Buy one get one free”) is an effective tactic to promote
products—you give a free item for purchasing two others. Many
customers would be all for taking advantage of this offer.
Usually, the free product is a replenishable item or something that
complements another, more expensive product. 
Types of BOGO sales for promoting products:
Buy one, get one half price
Buy one and get a free sample
Buy two get one free (also called B2GO)
Buy a product from one category and get a free product from another
category
Example:
Here’s a B2GO sale that promotes a brand birthday sale:
 buy 2 get 1 free sales popup example from Blume 
How you can use BOGO to promote:
Excess inventory items (especially seasonal)
Products you need to sell faster
New products
Having this promo once in a while (say, once in a couple of months)
can help raise awareness of products by having visitors explore our
website more.
Like the design of Blume’s popup? See more (including popups
advertising a new product) here:
POPUP DESIGN EXAMPLES
5. PRODUCT BUNDLING
Product bundling is a strategy in which you combine products you want
to promote as a single unit sold for one price. Using product bundling
can help sell more by increasing the average size of orders.
Types of product bundling:
PURE BUNDLING. Only you choose the products in the bundle
MIX & MATCH BUNDLING. Customers are free to select products
NEW PRODUCT BUNDLING. Includes new products and is available for a
limited time
CROSS-SELL BUNDLING. Involves products from different categories that
go together
EXCESS INVENTORY BUNDLING. Combines old inventory products and
includes extra discounts
BOGO BUNDLING. You give a product for free for buying products you
chose
Examples:
CODAGE Paris promotes their products with a BOGO bundle offer:
 bundle 
One more—
A product bundle sale that also gives an extra 10% discount code:
 blume bundle popup 
To market your products more effectively with bundling, add
promotional messages about them at high-traffic places, like your
homepage, in a website bar, or in a popup. 
TIP: ADD A DISCOUNT TO YOUR BUNDLING OFFER
A discount will make the deal much more appealing in the eyes of
customers, especially those looking for the best deals. It does not
have to be a large discount (even $10 off could do the job).
These 18 DISCOUNT CODE IDEAS should be useful.
6. COLLABORATION WITH OTHER BRANDS
Do you have a partnership with another business? 
Do your products go well together with theirs?
If yes, then you can effectively promote your products to customers by
doing a collaboration. This way, you'll double the marketing
effort and tap into new audiences.
Example:
émoi émoi collaborated with Superga to promote a special B2GO offer:
free collector socks for buying two matching pairs of shoes (for a mom
and a child). 
This product promotion campaign was advertised on émoi émoi's
website like that:
 emoi emoi onsite notifications 
If the visitors clicked, they went to the special émoi émoi &
Superga collaboration page where they could pick the shoes and the
size.
There, they also applied the promo code to unlock the offer:
 embed on website 
émoi émoi has done a great job promoting products like that.
In fact, the onsite notification (the one you saw earlier) DROVE 289
VISITORS to the page with the promoted products (that’s an 8% CVR):
 emoi emoi onsite notifications CTR 
To make your product promotion with partner collaborations effective:
Pick a theme to make the offer special
Choose products that go well together with your partner’s items
Use a discount code to know how many offers were applied to cart
Promote the offer on your website with multiple channels (in émoi
émoi's case, it was onsite notifications and embeds
"The Superga x émoi émoi shoes are the 3rd and 4th most viewed
product pages since the beginning of the operation.”
Lucie Poirier, Digital marketing manager, émoi émoi
READ CASE STUDY
7. PRODUCT GIVEAWAY
Giveaways are a good way to promote a product to new customers (and
build your email list, too).
Ideally, you should give away something you sell—to give your
potential customers a taste of your product and make them want to come
back for more.
Wildcraft, for example, gave away a new product alongside a second
one:
Next—
Faguo is running this product giveaway campaign as a spin-to-win
popup. The prize: a pair of expensive Faguo sneakers.
This product promotion campaign was also successful, generating tens
of thousands of new leads for Faguo. So, they’re running it all year
round.
The campaign is activated on both the desktop and mobile versions of
Faguo’s website, which was a good idea:
 faguo performance 
If advertising your products with a giveaway sounds interesting:
10 GIVEAWAY IDEAS to get started (with examples)
SPIN-TO-WIN POPUP GUIDE (if you want to find out how they work)
Or—
You can try creating a spin popup (just choose a template to get a
head start):
Make a spin popup
More details about Faguo's product promotion campaign:
 faguo logo 
Learn how Faguo generates over 2,000 new leads every month by giving
away a pair of expensive sneakers from their collection:
FAGUO CASE STUDY
8. SMS DISCOUNT COUPONS
You can also promote your products with text messages—many customers
don’t mind them at all.
The first step is to build a list of phone numbers, which is also
pretty straightforward to do. One way is to use signup forms on your
website: newsletter signup forms, popups, and other onsite tools. Just
add a field for a phone number entry (available in all lead generation
tools, most likely including the ones you’re using).
Example:
This popup offers a discount code in exchange for a phone number:
 sms popup product promotion 
You can create a campaign just like the website pop-up example above
easily by adding a phone number signup field to a signup form of your
choice.
If you go with popups—
In Wisepops, this is done in a few clicks: in the popup editor, find
PHONE in the BLOCKS menu and drag it onto the template like that:
 how to create sms popup to promote products 
Feel like experimenting? Dive right in and try our popup form builder.
Just create a free account to get started (takes less than a minute):
Make SMS popup
Inspiration for you:
EXAMPLES OF SMS POPUPS
EXPERT TIP: COLLECT EMAILS AND PHONE NUMBERS WITH ONE CAMPAIGN.
You can accelerate lead generation by using two-step signup forms (one
for emails and another one for phone numbers). In fact, Blume’s SMS
popup above is a two-step popup form (see “Skip this step” under
the button?) Clicking that takes the visitor to the email signup.
9. FREE SAMPLES
Free product or service is a proven way to stimulate trial and
awareness of products (both popular and new ones). 
This way to market products is popular in many industries. For
example, online clothing & accessories stores offer free samples in
BOGO sales, and meal subscription businesses give away free samples.
Example:
Sundays for Dogs, a pet food store, promotes its Chicken recipe with a
free sample box:
 sundays for dogs welcome popup 
What is great about this way to promote products is that Sundays for
Dogs chose to display this offer on exit, e.g. when a visitor is about
to leave (hesitating whether to try their service).
A free sample can be that last step that stops shoppers from
hesitating.
On top of that, the free samples also help with getting customer
reviews for the business, which, in turn, helps build reputation:
 review 
EXIT INTENT POPUP EXAMPLES are everywhere, partly because you can do a
lot of things with them (product promotions, driving traffic to
product pages, reminding visitors of abandoned carts, you name it).
And, of course, it also helps that exit popups convert 3% of visitors
on average (the top 10% convert 19.6%, though).
 Shop now sales popup 
Free templates
Get a head start on designing exit intent popups. Browse our library
of designer-made popup templates:
➡️ GO TO TEMPLATES
10. SALE PROMOTIONS
A sale is obviously not the most groundbreaking but still one of the
best ways to promote products. But we’re going to focus here is that
a diverse sales strategy is the best.
That is, trying different types of sales is key.
Here are the sales promotions you can experiment with:
Percentage sale (“20% sitewide sale”)
Dollar value discount (“Get $20 off your order”)
Flash sales (those lasting 24 hours)
Product category sale (dresses sale, jackets sale, etc.)
Special sales (free upgrades, VIP discounts, etc.)
Holiday and seasonal promotions 
Free one-day shipping
“$X and under sale”
Brand birthday sale
So many sales you can promote your products with! Let’s now see a
few examples of campaigns advertising products using them.
Flash sale from Charlotte Bio (note how easy it is to apply the code):
 sale 
Next product promotion example—
Net-a-porter’s percentage sale on selected products (note how they
promote the sale in multiple ways: a website banner and a small
popup):
 website popup example small 
Next—
A special sale.
Pedego Harlem promotes two products by offering a free product for
buying them:
 how to promote product upgrade 
If you’d like to see more examples—
SALES PROMOTION EXAMPLES from 20+ online businesses.
 charlottebio 
Flash sale case study
This online store generated 17% of monthly sales in six hours thanks
to a discount code promo:
CHARLOTTE BIO FLASH SALE STRATEGY
11. PRODUCT QUIZ
With quizzes, you can promote one, several, or an entire product
collection. They are one of the best ways to do so because they make
the selection fun and personalized.
Example:
Stumptown Coffee Roasters sells a bunch of different types of coffee
(original blends, organic, decaf, ground, and more). To promote their
product range (including new products) more effectively, they created
a quiz for shoppers: 
 quiz in a popup 
I took the quiz myself—it was quite fun (even had to answer what my
favorite season was).
Anyway—
In the end, the quiz generated a specific product recommendation:
 quiz result 
This way, Stumptown uses ecommerce personalization and encourages
visitors to try their products in a non-pushy, fun, and easy way. 
You can do that, too—
All you need is to come up with questions and get a couple of
ecommerce tools (say, Typeform for adding the quiz to your website and
Wisepops to maximize awareness among visitors with popup forms, onsite
notifications, and bars).
_“The quiz also helps customers to find appropriate beard products
based on their lifestyle. And it helps us get a better grasp of our
fans and their interests."_
Eric Bandholz, founder, Beardbrand
Learn how product quizzes helped Beardbrand become a $7M business:
SHOPIFY SUCCESS STORIES
12. PRODUCT EMAIL
Your email subscribers are obviously your best bet to grow your
business. So, marketing your products and services with emails is a
must.
Ideas to promote products with emails:
New product launch email
Product collection launch email
Email promoting only one product/feature
Email that focuses on the benefit of using a product
Email promoting multiple products
Email with a product review
Email with best sellers
Let’s now see a couple of examples.
Taylor Stitch promotes a best-selling product with a cool-looking
email like this:
 email product promotion 
Holo Taco, a nail polish brand, is advertising the new collection of
chrome nail polish:
 email product promotion 2 
13. SOCIAL MEDIA MARKETING
Facebook, Instagram, TikTok, you name it—your business should be
where your customers are. That, of course, includes more than having a
profile.
How to promote products on social media:
Make posts with high-quality lifestyle product images and short videos
(reels)
Use Commerce Manager to manage all product promotion activities on
Facebook and Instagram
Mix product promotional content with educational content, how-to
videos, and polls
Invest more in Tiktok product videos if your audience uses this
platform (today, fulfilling order through TikTok is totally possible
thanks to collaborations with shipping platforms)
Use customer-generated social media content and share it on your
website, social media profiles, and email marketing campaigns
 facebook product promotion 
Last but not least—
Add social media links to your website and encourage people to follow.
Building your following is a non-stop process and the website is a
good way to start.
Tip: 
Promote your Instagram posts on your website with shoppable feeds and
onsite notifications. This can be done with the Instafeed app and by
connecting Wisepops and Instagram.
14. INFLUENCER MARKETING
Here’s how influencers can help you advertise products:
Contests
Giveaways
Unboxing videos
“How-to use” videos
Product reviews
Example:
Danny Packs, a social media influencer who reviews backpacks, made
this video reviewing Black Ember’s new product, the Shadow:
15. CUSTOMER REVIEWS
The vast majority of your potential customers use reviews to evaluate
a product or service before buying. So, reviews from previous
customers can be a powerful way to promote your product. 
To get started with this strategy:
GET A PRODUCT REVIEW APP TO SPEED THINGS UP. If your store is on
Shopify, try an app like Judge.me or Rivo (both have free
plans)—they’ll help automate collecting reviews
ENCOURAGE YOUR CUSTOMERS TO LEAVE REVIEWS. An easy way is to send
emails to those who bought your products
DISPLAY REVIEWS IN PROMINENT PLACES ON YOUR WEBSITE. Those places
include product pages, the homepage, menu pages
Examples:
Taylor Stitch displays reviews on products pages in sections:
 customer reviews 
Next—
You can also display reviews in popup forms to maximize product
awareness and interest:
 exit popup with review 
IDEA:
SHOW A REVIEW OF A PRODUCT TO VISITORS WHO VIEWED IT BUT WENT TO OTHER
PAGES.
Creating this campaign is easy: just copy the text of the review to
the popup and add a link to the product to the CTA button.
16. BLOG CONTENT
You can promote your products with long articles, videos, short posts,
how-to guides, listicles, and other blog content. Each piece you make
can be an informative and useful source that introduces potential
customers to your product and expertise.
Example:
Snif sells fine fragrances and scented candles.
The blog at Snif is full of advice that educates visitors on anything
related to those products:
 blog 
Every piece of content is, of course, an opportunity to promote
products.
Example:
The piece on “Nostalgic smells that will take you way back”—I
couldn’t resist finding out what those were—has a long list, with
each one featuring a link to a product (highlighted):
 product promotion in content 
RESULTS OF WISEPOPS SEASONAL CAMPAIGN CONTEST
See examples of campaigns made by marketers like you: SEASONAL
CAMPAIGN CONTEST
SUMMARY
You can market your products and services in so many ways, as you can
see. 
I recommend building your strategy by combining the onsite and offsite
channels into one plan. Since the best way to promote products depends
on your customers and their behavior, you’ll be able to cover more
touchpoints this way.
Also, let me recommend our tool, Wisepops, for onsite promotion. It
gives you four channels: onsite notifications, popups (of any
imaginable kind), embeds (signup forms you can add anywhere on your
website), and website bars. 
Give it a go with A FREE TRIAL—as you’ve seen from this post, it
helped many online stores achieve impressive results. 
OLEKSII KOVALENKO
Oleksii Kovalenko is a digital marketing expert and a writer with a
degree in international marketing. He has seven years of experience
helping ecommerce store owners promote their businesses.
