Original page: https://visibilitygurus.com/blog/shopify-speed-optimization/
-------------------

Skip to main contentSkip to footer
 Visibility Gurus Logo 
     Home
     Services
     Case Studies
Services
     Dropdown link 1
     Dropdown link 2
     About
     Blog

Free AuditLet's Talk
Shopify SEO
MASTERING SHOPIFY SPEED OPTIMIZATION: BEST PRACTICES AND TECHNIQUES
Navneet Singh
Updated 10 November, 2023
 shopify speed optimization 
TABLE OF CONTENTS

For every second it takes your website to load, you risk losing 7% of
your revenue (Search Engine Journal). Also, Google likes fast websites
because they make users happy. If your Shopify store loads quickly,
it’s not just cool—it’s like a magic key for more sales. In
short, fast load times make both users and search engines think your
website is a winner.
In this blog post, we’re covering everything about speeding up your
Shopify store. First, we’ll dive into what slows down a store’s
loading speed. After that, we’ll share strategies to tackle those
issues. 
Get ready to level up your store’s speed and performance!
WHAT IS SHOPIFY SPEED OPTIMIZATION?
The images, code, and other assets that affect the loading time of a
store are optimized through a process called Shopify speed
optimization. The main purpose is to get fast loading speed and better
performance of the store.
Let’s dive into the advantages that come with a faster-loading
online store.
BENEFITS OF OPTIMIZING YOUR SHOPIFY STORE PAGE SPEED
Shopify speed optimization is just like greasing the wheels of your
online success. From enhancing user experience to getting higher
search engine rankings, speed optimization can bring many benefits to
your store. 
Let’s dive into the advantages that come with a faster-loading
online store.
     USER EXPERIENCE: Customers in digital stores are attracted to
products, which is why they arrive there. If they get the desired
results quickly, they will think not to go elsewhere, as everyone
wants to save time. Thus, faster loading of the site decreases the
bounce rate and creates a pleasant experience for users.
     INCREASED SEARCH ENGINE RANKING: Speed is one of the main ranking
factors by Google, and in the case of Shopify stores, apart from
getting conversions, the goal is also getting user attention, and that
is possible by maintaining a good search engine ranking. Hence,
increase your store’s loading speed and enjoy top ranking in
SERPs.  
     MORE SALES ON SHOPIFY: When real users have a slow experience while
shopping, whether on a phone or laptop, they are less likely to
purchase from you, not even in the future. Thus, a slow site is
equivalent to a missed selling opportunity. Make it load within 3
seconds and get a lesser abandonment rate and more sales on your
Shopify store.  
     BETTER CUSTOMER RETENTION: First impression matters a lot. Imagine a
visitor viewing your store, but it takes a higher loading time than
usual. In the future, if they see your store’s mention in SERP, they
will not even bother to view it as they have a bad experience in their
mind. However, if the converse happens, they will think to shop from
your site whenever they need the product. Hence, having a fast-loading
store and owning high-quality products is necessary.
You will enjoy these benefits if your store has good speed and less
loading time. But, before letting you know the procedure’s method,
we want to discuss some common factors affecting website speed in the
next segment.
COMMON FACTORS THAT AFFECT WEBSITE SPEED
To strengthen anything, we have to work on each of its weakest parts.
Just like the strength of a chain is determined by the strength of its
weakest link. That’s why we will discuss each factor that affects
the website speed.
     HOSTING PERFORMANCE: The first thing you need to do to create a
successful business is to choose a good web hosting service. This
service is like the foundation of your online presence. When picking a
hosting provider, two important things to consider are where their
servers are located and how much storage and RAM they offer. These
factors affect how fast your website’s content gets to your
visitors. So, choosing a hosting provider with a server closer to the
target audience and sufficient resources can solve the issue of slow
loading times.
     SERVER RESPONSE TIME: The quicker the server responds to the
user’s request, the better will be your website speed. If the
response time from your server is fast, you can give your site
visitors a snappy user experience.
     SHOPIFY IMAGE SIZES: Oversized images lead to a slow website.
Sometimes, stores optimize images through the right Shopify image size
techniques but forget the hidden ones, like product variants, which in
turn slows down the speed. 
     CODE EFFICIENCY: Complex or inefficient code impacts the overall
store’s speed.  But, if there is clean HTML, CSS, and JavaScript
code, your users can render the information quicker. Minimizing
unnecessary code, reducing HTTP requests, and optimizing code help in
achieving all this.
     REDIRECTS: Unnecessary redirects frustrate users as these increase
the loading time. But, if you minimize them and instead use 301
redirects for permanent changes, you will be closer to your goal.
     CACHING: Some elements get saved automatically on your customer’s
device if your store caches. When they return to your online store the
next time, the browser loads resources from the cache instead of
sending another request to the server. Images, PDFs, JS files, and CSS
files can be cached, and loading time for returning visitors can be
improved.
     THIRD-PARTY APPS AND PLUGINS: The use of third-party apps and
plugins introduces additional code that slows down the site. So, if
you are not using any app, then better disable it. Otherwise, its
coding can affect your store’s speed and performance.
So, these are the general factors that overburden the loading of a
webpage. But, if you improve them for product pages and your store’s
home page, you will provide your customers with a simple and seamless
experience. 
CONDUCT A SPEED AUDIT FOR YOUR SHOPIFY WEBSITE
From here on, the actual procedure starts, and that too, with a
comprehensive Shopify SEO audit -focused on speed. This is the first
step where you will check how well your site shows up on search
engines. 
You can use tools like Google PageSpeed Insights and GTmetrix.
 an example of a stores Google page analytics report 
Check the KPIs like “First Contentful Paint,” “Time to
Interactive,” “Total Blocking Time, and “Largest Contentful
Paint.”
Determining these factors will help you identify high-impact issues
and uncover specific bottlenecks affecting speed. 
Now that you know what the problems are and where they lie. So,
let’s focus on the solutions to fix them.
STRATEGIES FOR SHOPIFY SPEED OPTIMIZATION
53% of visitors will abandon your website if it takes more than 3
seconds to load. But, with our strategies and best practices for
optimizing the speed of a Shopify store, you can provide a simple,
seamless, and responsive shopping experience for your customers and
bring higher engagement and sales. 
Remember one thing before implementing any tactic: tackle one issue at
a time. This will help you focus better. Also, keep tracking the
improvements after each step, which will help you determine the
effectiveness of your steps.
CHOOSE A LIGHTWEIGHT AND RESPONSIVE THEME
The theme is the base on which your whole site is built. It is the
very first step in building a Shopify store. That is why choosing a
well-codded, lightweight, and responsive theme for your store becomes
important. 
But one thing to remember is to get themes from reputable sources
only. You can check their Liquid render performance on the Shopify
theme inspector for Chrome.
Additionally, use “web-safe” fonts for your chosen themes and
customize them as per your brand requirements. Some themes might
contain extra features, and they are just overloading the store. So,
in that case, go with the “disabling of unwanted features.”
Here are some popular Shopify themes: 
    FREE THEMES
    PAID THEMES
    Dawn
    Split
    Narrative
    Label
    Simple
    Cascade
COMPRESS, RESIZE, AND REDUCE IMAGES AND MEDIA FILES
Online businesses cannot skip presenting images, videos, or media
files. These pictures highlight the products, but even this is true,
that big images impact the site speed of a store. 
The store has to show products from different angles and variants, but
do not worry, as you can compress and resize them without losing
quality. How? Here is the answer.
 compress resize and reduce images and media files 
Using lightweight embedded videos designed for fast loading and
minimal data is a good idea for displaying product videos on your
website. These video formats are ideal for people with slower internet
connections or mobile devices with limited data plans.
Furthermore, Shopify has its own recommended image sizes for optimal
performance. Product images, collection images, theme images, and
thumbnail images, all have specific resolutions. For more detailed
information, you can refer to guidelines on Shopify image sizes.
Related read: See the Shopify Image Optimization guide to learn how to
optimize images for a fast-loading website. 
LIMIT THIRD-PARTY APPS AND PLUGINS
One can use as many as required third-party apps and plugins for added
functionality in their Shopify store. But, while enhancing
functionality and user experience, they slow down a site’s loading
speed and impact its performance. They make requests to external
servers or load additional scripts, increasing the page load time;
this situation worsens, especially for mobile devices with slower
internet connections.
Thus, it becomes essential to maintain a balance between the features
and site performance. Consider keeping only those apps whose benefits
outweigh their impact on the site speed. Also, remove any inactive
apps, as these only negatively impact the store. Deleting them will
help in reducing the clutter and improve your site’s speed.
You should also check if there are two or more apps performing similar
functions in the store. If there are, then consider consolidating the
features into a single app so that the number of requests can be
reduced.
MOBILE OPTIMIZATION
Around 80% of shoppers buy from their mobile devices. So, you cannot
skip the importance of optimizing a site for them, as the users expect
and prefer to fast-load websites only. On the contrary, they get
frustrated and bounce back if they get slow loading times. But, if you
work for the site’s optimization, you can provide visitors with a
smooth and speedy experience.
In addition to boosting user engagement, faster loading times can
enhance your SEO (Search Engine Optimization) performance and increase
your visibility in search engine results pages (SERPs). Moreover, when
your website loads quickly on mobile devices, it’s more likely that
customers will complete their transactions, leading to higher sales
and revenue.
Here’s how you can achieve a mobile-optimized Shopify store. 
     Choose a theme that is designed to adapt and display well on various
screen sizes and mobile devices, i.e., a responsive theme. And
luckily, Shopify offers many such RESPONSIVE THEMES.  
     After selecting the best one, ensure that it works well on mobile
devices and provides a seamless user experience. Especially, check for
issues like layout problems, small text, and difficult navigation. 
     The next step you should follow is to compress the store’s images
for mobile devices. You can use compression tools or apps to reduce
the file size of your product images without sacrificing the quality.
MINIMIZING CSS AND JAVASCRIPT CODE
The next strategy we will discuss is the presence of compressed and
clean CSS, JavaScript, and Liquid files in the site’s coding. If
these files are compressed, one can improve their store’s
performance, user experience, and maintainability. Some of its
benefits are reduced page load times, enhanced mobile optimization,
and a positive impact on SEO.
It would be a good idea to merge and minify these files to achieve
these benefits. Let’s go deeper and make you understand better.
     You can combine multiple CSS or JavaScript files into a single file.
It will reduce the number of HTTP requests required to load a webpage.
If you are facing a delay in loading a product page or any page of
your store, consider implementing this. 
     The presence of whitespace and comments takes extra storage and
complicates the code. Consider removing these and making the code more
compact. This will help in reducing the file size and speed up the
parsing by browsers.
     You can also remove unnecessary code for “above the fold”
content. This advanced technique will help in prioritizing the loading
of essential code and resources required for the portion of the
webpage visible to the user when the page initially loads.
     By using tools like  WebPageTest, analyze the loading of your file.
This will help you identify the issues in the process and fine-tune
your optimization efforts.
SHOPIFY HOSTING OPTIONS TO REDUCE SERVER RESPONSE TIME
In theory, Shopify is a hosted e-commerce platform that manages most
of the server-related aspects. However, you can optimize your hosting
environment and reduce server response time if required. How? Let’s
check it out.
Select a web hosting service that is trustworthy and fast. It’s even
better if it’s easy to use for beginners. Make sure it gives you
fast loading times everywhere, good backup options, and strong
security features. Consider upgrading to a higher hosting plan with
your store’s growth.
BROWSER CACHING ON USER DEVICES
Browser caching permits web browsers to store certain website assets
on a user’s device, like images, stylesheets, JavaScript files,
etc. 
You can configure the browser caching settings of your Shopify store.
Set it up to one year, and the browser will store certain assets for
longer, even if the user returns to the website after a long period.
This will optimize website performance, reduce server load, and
enhance UX, and is highly beneficial for sites with static or
infrequently changing assets.
PRELOADING CRITICAL RESOURCES
Preloading is a technique to improve the Time-to-first-bite (TTFB) by
requesting and loading certain elements in advance. Whereas, TTFB is
the time a webpage takes for a user’s browser to receive the first
byte of data from the server after the request is made. 
Here’s how preloading works, in simple words:
     RESOURCE IDENTIFICATION: The first step in preloading starts with
identifying the critical resources that should be loaded in advance.
Generally, these resources are important from the perspective of
initial rendering. It includes images, CSS files, JavaScript
libraries, and fonts.
     PRELOADING HINTS: The web developers put hints to the browser about
the resources to be preloaded. For this, they use HTML link elements
and HTTP headers. The resource’s type, location, and significance
are specified through this.
     RESOURCE LOADING: The moment the browser encounters these hints, it
starts fetching and loading the specified resources in the background.
The resources are generally stored in the browser’s cache.
     IMPROVED TTFB: As the significant resources are already in the
cache. When the browser encounters references to them in the page’s
HTML, the TTFB is reduced. With this, the browser starts rendering the
webpage faster, and there is a quicker loading time and a better user
experience.
BENEFITS OF PRELOADING
     Faster Page Load Times: With preloading critical resources, users
perceive the website as faster and more responsive, which, in turn,
speeds up the overall page loading time.
     Improved User Experience: When users get what they want in less
time, it gives a positive impression on their minds, and they prefer
engaging on that site.
     Reduced Latency: Users with slower internet connections face issues
while browsing an online store. But, preloading reduces network
latency by fetching resources in advance.
     Better SEO: Search engines consider page speed as a significant
aspect when ranking websites. Thus, a website’s search engine
ranking and visibility can be improved with faster loading time.
NEXT-GEN IMAGE FORMAT
The best way to upload high-quality images without slowing down your
page load time is by using next-gen image formats. These
next-generation formats offer image compression that reduces network
data consumption, resulting in faster load times. These involve
advanced compression capabilities, making it easier for mobile and
tablet devices to display high-quality images without compromising
page size and speed.
Next-gen image formats are of two types:
     AVIF
     WebP
The AVIF image format, compresses images into smaller sizes while
retaining their image quality. But there is one limitation, it is
compatible with limited browsers.
Whereas the other type, WebP formatted images, are half the size of
JPEG (a popular image format), but the same quality is maintained.
CONTENT DELIVERY NETWORK (CDN) INTEGRATION
To enhance the speed and performance of a Shopify store, integration
of CDN (Content Delivery Network) can be a strategic move. Although,
Shopify’s built-in global CDN is designed to provide a reliable and
fast experience for its users. However, some special cases exist where
integrating an external CDN can be beneficial.
You will need an external CDN for the following reasons:
> HIGH GLOBAL TRAFFIC: Shopify’s CDN handles a wide range of
> traffic levels worldwide, but if the store gets exceptionally high
> global traffic, in that case, an external CDN is required. It will
> help distribute the load more efficiently, and the effect of traffic
> will not impact the store’s performance.
> 
>      FASTER SPEED FOR REMOTE USERS: Stores that want to target an
> audience spread across the world should consider integrating
> external CDNs, as these have servers located in geographical
> regions. It will reduce the round-trip time for data between the
> user’s device and the server. So, your remote users will get a
> fast-loaded webpage. Also, advanced routing algorithms allow
> external CDNs to choose the fastest and most reliable path for
> content delivery.
>       ADVANCED CACHING: External CDNs are more flexible in terms of
> caching. If you want to cache specific content for shorter or longer
> periods, you can also configure that. Thus, it enables you to
> optimize your store’s performance based on your specific needs.
> 
>      MORE SECURITY: You can expect advanced DDoS protection while using
> external CDNs, implying that your store’s content will be
> protected from large-scale cybercriminal attacks. It also ensures
> that your site will remain accessible during security threats. Along
> with DDoS, you can expect WAF services (Web Application Firewall)
> with the addition of external CDNs, which will protect your site
> from SQL injection and cross-site scripting.   
LAZY LOADING FOR SHOPIFY TO MAKE YOUR SITE FASTER
The next technique for delivering a seamless user experience is lazy
loading. It helps in the optimization of images, videos, and other
essential assets of a store in such a way that the loading time
remains unaffected until the user interacts with the content, or it
comes into their viewport.
 How lazy loading works 1 
The technique is useful for the store in many ways:
     Better page load time.
     Enhanced UX.
     Reduced data usage.
     Improved SEO.
     Reduced bounce rates.
     Resource usage optimization.
As per a study, lazy-loading images reduced the median above-the-fold
bytes by 35% (Source: Search Engine Land), which implies that the
technique will take less data to load initially, and visitors will get
a faster webpage.
Related Read: Check out our Shopify Lazy Loading guide to fully
leverage lazy loading for a fast-loading website.
GOOGLE TAG MANAGER
It is the best solution for all those non-tech-savvy store owners, as
it allows adding or deleting tags from the website without touching
the code. Isn’t it amazing that you can manage all the tracking code
effortlessly? 
Basically, Google Tag Manager is a tool that manages various tracking
codes and scripts on a website to collect data and insights about
website visitors. Generally, data from Google Analytics and Facebook
is stored through it.
If you directly add tracking codes to your website, it will slow down
the loading time for sure. However, GTMs’ presence acts like a smart
organizer. Your tracking record is collected together, and the webpage
will load more efficiently. 
Now, the catch is that Google Tag Manager is unavailable for all
Shopify users. It is primarily available for Shopify Plus, and only
stores with VIP memberships can access this feature. If you want to
enjoy this advanced feature, subscribe Shopify Plus plan.
KEEP YOUR SHOPIFY VERSION AND APPS UPDATED
Last but not least, keeping your Shopify version and apps updated is
crucial for your online store’s overall performance, speed, and
security. Just like sharpening the tools in your digital toolbox,
it’s the key to sustained online success.
Doing so will enrich you with the following benefits:
     IMPROVED SPEED: Shopify regularly releases updates for its platform
and apps. Keeping these components up-to-date can enhance your
store’s performance, leading to a quicker website loading time.
Improved speed can positively impact your store’s search engine
ranking and enhance your overall SEO.
     BUG FIXES: The platform releases software updates to address issues
in the existing version. Regular updates will help ensure your site
functions smoothly and without interruptions.
     NEW FEATURES AND CAPABILITIES: Updates introduce new features and
capabilities, enhancing the efficiency of a store’s backend
operations and helping you stay ahead of the competition.
     ENHANCED SECURITY: It’s common that cybersecurity threats are
evolving over time. That’s why, Shopify releases security updates to
protect the store from potential security breaches. To save your
site’s data and customers’ sensitive information, updating becomes
super important. 
     COMPATIBILITY: App developers strive to ensure that store products
remain compatible with the latest web technologies and browsers.
However, outdated software components may not be compatible with newer
ones, leading to display issues or other functionality problems.
After discussing benefits, it’s time to share some BEST PRACTICES.
Take a look:
     Regularly check for updates for your Shopify theme, apps, and the
Shopify platform itself.
     You can set up automatic updates, if available. However,
periodically reviewing your site for any pending updates cannot be
overlooked.
     Monitor the site’s speed and performance using tools like
GooglePageSpeed insights or GTmetrix. In case, you find any
speed-related issue, address it promptly.
     Check for responsiveness and compatibility of your site on different
devices and browsers from time to time.
CONCLUSION
Absolutely true – speed might be dangerous on the road, but when it
comes to Shopify stores, go all out to give your store exceptional
speed. Implement the strategies we’ve discussed, and you’ll see
leads, conversions, and sales rolling in.
If you need any guidance or help with Shopify speed optimization,
don’t hesitate to contact us. We’re here to be a part of your
store’s journey to success. Let’s make your store thrive!
CTA – SHOPIFY SPEED OPTIMIZATION SERVICE
FAQS
1)    Why is website speed important for my Shopify store?
Ans. The loading speed of a webpage is the deciding factor while
online shopping. Visitors will abandon your site if it takes more than
3 seconds to load. Moreover, you risk losing 7% of your revenue with
every second delay. That’s the reason optimizing the web speed is
really very, very important.
2)    What factors influence the speed of my Shopify store?
Ans. Factors like hosting performance, Shopify image sizes, code
efficiency, response time, redirects, caching, third-party apps, and
plugins impact the loading speed of a Shopify store. But, if optimized
correctly, you can solve the issue of extended loading times.
3)   What tools can I use to measure my Shopify store’s speed?
Ans. One can use Google PageSpeed Insights, GTmetrix, and Light House
to measure the speed of their Shopify store.
4)    What is a good loading time for a Shopify store?
Ans. If your site loads between 3.0 seconds and 5.8 seconds, it will
be considered a good loading time for your Shopify store.
5)    Does the choice of Shopify theme affect website speed?
Ans. Yes. If you choose a theme with fancy animation-like features, it
will increase the loading time. So, it would be better to disable the
unnecessary theme features. 
6)    Should I minimize the use of apps on my Shopify store to
improve speed?
Ans. The use of apps contributes to the additional coding, which makes
a site slow. Hence, only keep the required apps. Otherwise, their
coding can affect your store’s speed and performance. 
7)    How can I optimize the code on my Shopify store for better
speed?
Ans. One can combine multiple CSS or JavaScript files into a single
file, remove unnecessary whitespace and comments, compress images,
minimize app usage, enable lazy loading, and implement caching to
optimize the code of a Shopify store for improved speed.
8)    Are there any common mistakes to avoid during Shopify speed
optimization?
Ans. Not compressing images, presence of excessive apps and plugins,
non-responsive design, unoptimized code, absence of CDN, and
inefficient theme selection can be some common mistakes that need to
be optimized.
9)    What steps can I take to maintain the speed of my Shopify
store over time?
Ans. You can analyze your store’s performance by using website
performance testing tools like Google PageSpeed Insights and GTmetix.
Keep your theme and apps updated, and optimize images & media.
Implement lazy loading to defer the loading of off-screen images and
videos.
Level up your Shopify Business
Join over 30+ Shopify stores already growing with Visibility Gurus
Audit My StoreContact the Experts
Powering Shopify Success through SEO Excellence