{
	link: 'https://www.shopify.com/blog/best-domain-registrars',
	title: '10 Best Domain Name Registrars To Use Now (2024)',
	subtitles: ['10 best domain name registrars', 'How a domain registrar works', 'How to choose a domain registrar', 'Methodology', 'Domain registrar FAQ'],
	content: ['Here are the best domain registrars, and their shortcomings, for when you set up a website, purchase a domain, register it, and host your site on a server.', 'Start your online business today.', 'For free.', 'A key step in marketing a new online business is choosing a domain name that reflects your brand. Great domain names are memorable and quick to type. Once you have a business idea and a killer name, you’ll need to purchase a domain, register it, and host your website on a server.', 'To cut short this complicated and cumbersome process, here are the best domain registrars and how to select the one perfect for your business.', 'Best for ecommerce businesses', '', 'Shopify is the best domain registrar if you’re looking to set up an online store.', 'When you’re making a website, convenience is huge. There can be an overwhelming amount of tools and tasks for creating each component of your site, especially for an ecommerce domain.', 'For instance, you need to find a domain registrar, a hosting service for your domain, a website design tool, and, most likely, email and customer support functionality.', 'It’s possible to find tools that will handle each of these tasks individually, but speaking from experience, things can quickly get complicated. It’s easy to fall down a rabbit hole of apps, open tabs, and forgotten passwords.', 'Shopify gives you all of these commerce and website tools in a single place. When you register your domain with Shopify, it’s connected to your fully hosted online store immediately, which means you won’t have to worry about third-party connections or a complex technical setup.', 'Overall, Shopify is best-suited for those setting up an online store. If you don’t need ecommerce functionality, check out other registration options on this list.', 'Prices start at $11 per year. Renewal pricing is consistent with your year-one purchase price—no surprise renewal fees.', 'Try our free domain name generator', 'Use Shopify's domain name generator to search for business names and check domain availability instantly.', 'Best for an affordable starting price', '', 'Namecheap is an affordable option for domain registration and also offers a budget-friendly web hosting bundle. It’s a good option for those looking for a fairly priced package that includes WHOIS protection and hosting.', 'That said, despite touting great customer support on its website, some Namecheap customer reviews say that the support is lacking. Other users have experienced billing errors.', 'Pricing for .com domains on Namecheap starts at $8.88 per year. Renewal pricing starts at $12.98 and averages about $4 extra in the second year than the amount originally paid.', 'Best for quick and easy registration', '', 'Hover has been around since 2008 and remains a user-friendly, simple domain registration service. If all you need to do is register a domain with no bells and whistles, Hover is for you.', 'That’s not to say Hover is without user features. Once you’ve bought your domain, use Hover Connect to link your address with your preferred hosting platform, including Shopify.', 'Pricing starts at $12.99 per year for .com domains. Renewals are around $14.99 per year.', 'Best for picking your own features', '', 'Domain.com is known for the speed and reliability of its ecommerce hosting. It also offers live chat support, which can be deeply helpful as you manage your new website.', 'Another notable feature of Domain.com is the way it separates its services. Privacy protection, hosting, SSL security, and a website builder are all available, but must be purchased alongside the domain. Depending on your needs, this might be welcome flexibility.', 'Pricing for .com domains start at $9.99 per year with a one-year minimum. Domain renewals for .com domains start at $13.99 per year.', 'Best for premium domain extensions', '', 'With transparent and reasonable pricing, plus a simple website design, Dynadot is an all-around good option. Notably, it offers a large variety of top level domains (TLDs). TLDs are the tail end of your domain, like .com, .co, .shop, etc.', 'Dynadot offers hundreds of TLDs, so there’s a good chance it will have exactly what you need.', 'Dynadot lists prices for both registration and renewal for every single TLD it offers. .com websites start at $7.99 for registration and $8.99 for renewals, making them one of the more affordable platforms in this list.', 'Best for custom privacy options', '', 'GoDaddy is the most well-known domain registrar in the world—but that doesn’t make it the best option.', 'GoDaddy is the most expensive of all of the domain registrars in the list, with high renewal fees and privacy features available only as add-ons. If you want to go with a big, well-known domain registrar, GoDaddy is a reasonable choice. But based on pricing alone, it’s not the best deal.', 'Pricing for .com domains starts at $11.99 for the first year. Renewal costs aren’t listed on the website and can only be found in your account once you have registered a domain with GoDaddy.', 'Best for starting your first website', '', 'Bluehost is one of the best domain registrars for beginner website builders. If you buy a website hosting plan, Bluehost will give you a free domain for your first year. It also sports an intuitive site builder and 24/7 domain support.', '.com domains cost $12.99 per year, which includes a 30-day money-back guarantee and free SSL certification (full list of domain pricing).', 'Best for affordable and easy shared hosting', 'DreamHost is a good fit for corporate customers who want top-notch cloud hosting with their domain registration. DreamHost's web hosting offers unlimited data transfers per month, strong security features, and many domain management tools.', '.com domains start at $7.99 for the first year. Subsequent years you are charged the regular rate of $17.99 per year. That includes free SSL certification, free domain privacy, and free subdomains. Here’s a full list of Dreamhost’s domain pricing.', 'Best for long-term domain ownership', '', 'Network Solutions is a unique service because it gives you the option to lock down your domain for up to 100 years.', 'If you’re a small business owner, that can give you a lot of peace of mind. But one thing to note: However long you choose to lock down your website (be it 20 or 90 years), you do have to pay for those years upfront, and Network Solutions does not offer prorated refunds.', 'Starts at $9.99 per year.', 'Best for unique domain extension deals', 'Porkbun has over 500 different domain name extensions to choose from. Select popular domain extensions like .com and .org, or go for a unique address such as .cooking, .monster, or .asia. The interface is easy to navigate, and you can buy and renew domains in one convenient place.', 'Registration and renewal of a .com domain is $9.13. Porkbun offers a comprehensive list of all TDL prices.', 'A domain name is a unique web address that allows people to easily find your site online. As you go through the process of choosing your domain name, you’ll also need to pick a place to register it. That’s where domain registrars come in. A domain registrar is the entity through which you purchase and set up your domain; it also assigns your URL to a unique IP address.', 'You’ll want to vet the different domain registrars before you make a final decision. Here’s what to look for:', 'Most domain registrars require you to pay one year at a time, or you can choose to pay for multiple years to get a discount. The price for your first year of registration is often lower than the rate for subsequent years. So, while a low year one rate might catch your eye, you’ll want to make sure that the subsequent renewal prices are both affordable and in line with those of other registrars.', 'When you register a domain, it’s associated with personal details like your name, address, and email. That information is recorded by WHOIS and managed by the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN). Essentially, this means that anyone can look up who owns a domain and how to contact them by mail, phone, or email. Many domain owners choose to protect this personal information. You’ll want to make sure that any domain registrar you choose offers the option to hide that personal information if you don’t want it to be shared on the web.', 'A domain transfer is when you move a domain from one registrar to another. This is a handy option if you find a lower renewal price elsewhere or decide down the line to go with another option. Check to see how much flexibility you’ll have if you choose to transfer your domain in the future.', 'Some domain registrars offer all-in-one packages that include website hosting, an email address, alternate top level domains (like .store, .biz, or .co), etc. These packages are often more affordable and make it easier to get your website up and running. Take a look at what bundles or add-ons a registrar offers so you can get a better deal or manage everything in one place.', 'To find the top domain registrars, our writers took a careful look at each platform’s core features, value for money, popularity, additional services, and how simple they are to use.', 'Here are the aspects by which each registrar was judged:', 'Core platform features include the availability of unique domain extensions, WHOIS privacy protection, and bundled website and email hosting.', 'Registrar pricing includes the initial cost for a domain name, plus renewal charges and any discounts for long-term customers.', 'Because domain registration and website hosting can get complicated, the availability of support was considered. That includes online help pages and forums, live web chat, and a customer service phone line.', 'Many domain registrar platforms offer additional tools for specific use cases (such as setting up an ecommerce store). The team considered extra features offered by the registrar, including domain locks, automatic renewals, website builders, and extra security.', 'What registrar you use for your domain name registration will depend on the features you’re looking for and your price range. Check out the list above and choose the right one for you.', 'Yes. If you want to build a website quickly, you’ll need to use a domain registrar that offers domain hosting and domains for purchase. Shopify offers business owners both.', 'Go to a domain registrar and use its search tool to find the domain names currently available. For example, if you’re looking to create an ecommerce website, you can quickly find a domain through Shopify and register it in minutes.', 'Keep up with the latest from Shopify', 'Get free ecommerce tips, inspiration, and resources delivered directly to your inbox.', 'By entering your email, you agree to receive marketing emails from Shopify.', 'popular posts', '100+ new features to grow your business', 'popular posts']
}