{
	link: 'https://www.shopify.com/blog/ecommerce-shipping-software',
	title: 'When You Need a Trusted Solution: Ecommerce Shipping Software Platforms',
	subtitles: ['How to choose shipping software for your ecommerce business', 'Top ecommerce shipping software', 'Ecommerce shipping software FAQ'],
	content: ['Learn about ecommerce shipping software options to streamline your shipping operations, improve delivery times, and increase customer satisfaction.', 'Start your online business today.', 'For free.', 'Shoppers expect a range of shipping options that cater to their needs. They might choose next-day delivery for last-minute gifts, opt for the cost savings of flat-rate shipping when planning ahead, or filter for companies that offer international shipping because they’re living abroad. The challenge for businesses lies in creating a shipping strategy that offers this spectrum of options cost effectively.', 'A robust shipping software enables seamless integration of various shipping processes. This means keeping shipping costs transparent, printing shipping labels, and ensuring that packages are dispatched and delivered reliably. This article outlines what to look for when choosing shipping software and highlights some of the best choices available today.', 'Selecting the best shipping software for your needs is a crucial step for ecommerce businesses aiming to improve efficiency and boost customer satisfaction. Here’s what you’ll want in a shipping software solution:', 'A shipping software solution that offers real-time integration with your ecommerce platforms can automatically import orders and update stock levels. This eliminates manual data entry and the potential for human error.', 'Look for features like automatic order retrieval from multiple sales channels, synchronization of stock numbers, and direct communication with your inventory management and warehousing systems to keep your ecommerce business operations cohesive and responsive to demand.', 'Whether your business sees seasonal spikes or is experiencing consistent growth, having software that scales with your shipping volume is essential. Seek out multi-carrier shipping software that facilitates rate comparisons. This can lead to optimal delivery times and cost savings, especially when the software includes features that automate the selection process based on pre-set preferences for price, speed, or shipping carrier reliability.', 'Efficient shipping cost management directly impacts your bottom line. Look for software for ecommerce that calculates shipping rates and provides access to discounted rates through pre-negotiated carrier agreements. Features that offer transparent rate comparisons and suggest less expensive alternatives without compromising delivery quality can significantly reduce shipping expenses.', 'Global reach requires a shipping solution adept at handling international regulations and paperwork. The right software will automate customs forms and duties calculations, provide necessary tax documentation, and ensure adherence to international shipping laws. This kind of support minimizes the risk of customs shipping delays and can make the difference between a package arriving on time or getting stuck at the border.', 'A shipping platform that simplifies workflows can dramatically speed up the packing and dispatching process. Advanced software should offer batch label printing, integration with printers and scales for accurate weight capture, and tracking directly in the dashboard. These features provide faster fulfillment, save time, and reduce errors, allowing staff to focus on order accuracy and customer service rather than manual input tasks.', 'Effective management of customer service issues—including quick resolution of non-delivery reports (NDRs) and streamlined returns management—is essential for customer retention. Shipping software that includes an integrated returns portal, automated communications for status updates, and straightforward return label generation can improve the customer experience, even when issues arise.', 'To effectively manage your ecommerce logistics, choose software that fits your specific needs. With unique features that cater to various aspects of online order fulfillment, here are the top contenders in shipping software:', 'Shopify Shipping integrates directly with Shopify stores, allowing for seamless order fulfillment and management. It provides savings on shipping rates and a simplified workflow to handle everything from printing labels to tracking shipments. The service is exclusively available to Shopify merchants.', 'Key features include:', 'Pricing:', 'Aftership is a post-purchase customer experience platform that helps online retailers track shipments, manage ecommerce returns, and automate warranty processes. The platform provides real-time shipment tracking and return automation, increasing customer retention and satisfaction.', 'Key features include:', 'Pricing:', '2Ship is an all-in-one multi-carrier shipping platform designed to streamline the shipping process for businesses of all sizes. It consolidates carrier rates for easy comparison and selection while offering robust tracking and reporting features.', 'Key features include:', 'Pricing:', 'Shippo provides an ecommerce shipping solution that integrates with more than 40 global carriers and numerous store platforms, offering seamless label printing and easy tracking and returns. The platform is known for its ease of use and developer-friendly API, which can speed up business integration.', 'Key features include:', 'Pricing:', 'ShipStation offers an efficient and flexible ecommerce order fulfillment solution that integrates with more than 180 selling channels. It offers carrier discounts of up to 68%, a comprehensive set of automation tools, and a user-friendly interface for streamlined shipping management.', 'Key features include:', 'Pricing:', 'ShippingEasy is an online shipping platform offering discounted USPS and UPS rates and a suite of automation tools to streamline the shipping process. It offers easy integration with multiple sales channels and unlimited customer support.', 'Key features include:', 'Pricing:', 'Easyship is a cloud-based shipping software designed for growing businesses, offering up to 91% off shipping rates and a tracking system for customers. The software provides seamless integration with numerous ecommerce platforms and marketplaces and offers dynamic rates at checkout, which can improve conversion rates.', 'Key features include:', 'Pricing:', 'ShipEngine is a comprehensive shipping API that offers multi-carrier shipping solutions for businesses of all sizes. Its strengths lie in its robust integrations with more than 100 carriers, real-time rate comparisons, and address validation, which streamline the shipping process and reduce costs. The service may have a learning curve for those unfamiliar with API integration and could present a barrier for businesses lacking technical expertise.', 'Key features include:', 'Pricing:', 'OrderCup is a web-based order management and shipping solution designed to automate and streamline ecommerce fulfillment globally. It offers time and cost savings through features like batch shipping, intelligent defaults and rules, and access to discounted shipping rates.', 'Key features include:', 'Pricing:', 'Ordoro is an all-in-one ecommerce platform that automates shipping, inventory, and dropshipping processes, allowing business owners to reclaim time spent on menial tasks. It offers shipping discounts, bulk label printing, and automated inventory alerts, enhancing operational efficiency for users.', 'Key features include:', 'Pricing:', 'Shipping software automates and manages the order fulfillment process for online businesses, including label printing, inventory tracking, and carrier integration.', 'The best shipping companies for ecommerce depend on specific business needs, but major shipping carriers like UPS, FedEx, and USPS are commonly used for their reliability and range of shipping services.', 'Yes. Shopify offers integrated shipping software solutions within its platform, allowing businesses to manage orders, print shipping labels, reduce shipping costs, and track packages directly from their Shopify dashboard.', 'Keep up with the latest from Shopify', 'Get free ecommerce tips, inspiration, and resources delivered directly to your inbox.', 'By entering your email, you agree to receive marketing emails from Shopify.', 'popular posts', '100+ new features to grow your business', 'popular posts']
}