{
	link: 'https://www.shopify.com/blog/what-is-a-c-corporation',
	title: 'What Is a C Corporation? How To Form and Operate a C Corp',
	subtitles: ['What is a C corp?', 'When to form a C corp', 'How to form a corp', 'What to know about operating as a C corp', 'Pros and cons of a C corporation', 'How to convert an LLC into a C corp', 'How do C corps compare to other entity types?', 'Form your C corporation today', 'C corporation FAQ'],
	content: ['Learn what a C corporation is, how it works, and whether your business would benefit from this structure.', 'Build your', 'dream business.', 'Big American companies like Microsoft and Walmart are C corporations—that is, their income is taxed under Subchapter C of the US Internal Revenue Code.', 'But many of the benefits enjoyed by large, multinational business entities can be effectively leveraged by a small business owner too, especially those who want to garner investment in their business by issuing stock.', 'Don't let the business structure jargon commonly seen online and in the media deter you from learning about the many benefits of establishing a C corporation.', 'This guide will cover what a C corp is, and why it might be the right structure for your business.', 'A C corp, or C corporation, is a legal business structure that is treated as a separate entity from its owners. A C corp offers limited liability protection and allows for an unlimited number of shareholders.', 'A shareholder could own a single share of the company, or millions of shares. C corps raise funding through the sale of these shares.', 'The C corp entity itself is subject to corporate income taxation, while shareholders are subject to personal taxation. In simple terms, a C corp pays tax on its income just as an individual would pay tax on their yearly salary—a flat 21% on operational profits. Because shareholders in a C corp are legally distinct from the corporation itself, profits distributed to shareholders in the form of dividends or other distributions are taxed at shareholders’ personal rates—resulting in something called “double taxation.”', 'C corporations are considered the default corporation type. When you file articles of incorporation in your state of choice, the state will generally recognize your new corporation as a C corp by default.', 'Alternatives to C corps include: S corporations (S corps), and limited liability companies (LLCs). To register an S Corp, you must file Form 2553 and ensure S corp formation requirements are met. All three types divide a company’s assets from those of ownership, but are taxed differently.', 'Your business has to operate as a C corp if:', 'Forming a C corp is a complex process that likely will require consulting with a tax professional, a lawyer, and of course, ultimately signing articles of incorporation. At a high level, the steps for forming a C corp when starting a business are as follows:', 'Running your small business as a C corp will be more complex than doing so as an LLC, for example. There are substantially more rules and regulations to follow. But the complexity is a necessity for businesses with more than 100 shareholders, or those that plan to seek investment from international sources or other corporations and can have significant implications for federal income tax purposes.', 'Here’s what’s involved in operating as a C corp:', 'Choosing to form as an C Corp can offer structural advantages not available to S corps and LLCs: freely transferable interests, a sky’s-the-limit funding apparatus, and an undeniable sheen of legitimacy, which can attract investors.', 'A business owner may want to convert their LLC into a C corp if they seek outside investment or want to issue shares of their company. There are two main ways to convert an LLC into a C corp—statutory conversion and statutory merger. The method taken will depend on state laws where an LLC is registered.', 'A statutory conversion is the quickest and easiest of the three conversion methods. You can transfer the LLC’s assets and liabilities to a C corp without having to dissolve the LLC altogether. The LLC’s former members become corporate shareholders. The general process entails the following:', 'A statutory merger is more complicated but can be a viable option if your state does not allow statutory conversions or your specific entity type. (For example, New York is one of 10 states that does not permit statutory conversions of corporations to LLCs—check with your state’s secretary of state office to ascertain what is allowed where you intend to conduct business.)', 'Under a statutory merger, you must form a new corporation with LLC members as shareholders, then merge the two companies and formally dissolve the LLC. The process entails the following:', 'If you aim to convert an S corp to a C corp, the IRS does not offer a standard form for shifting tax status. Instead, you can simply file a written statement with the IRS, along with a consent form signed by a majority of corporate shareholders.', 'The main difference between a C corp and S corp as business structures lies in tax treatment. A C corp pays taxes on all corporate income, and shareholders pay personal taxes on any income they receive as dividends. S corps have pass-through taxation—shareholders report business income and losses on their personal tax return, but the company does not pay corporate tax. S corps are also limited to a maximum of 100 shareholders, who all must be US citizens or permanent residents.', 'S corps also require special documentation to be filed with the IRS, whereas C corps are generally recognized as the default corporate structure in most states.', 'Unlike C corps, LLCs are owned by a single owner or a group of owners. LLCs can’t issue shares, so there are no obligations to shareholders. Instead, LLCs are composed of members who share in company profits. LLC members can choose how to be taxed: they can opt for pass-through status, like S corps, or be subject to double taxation, like C corps. They can also be taxed as sole proprietorships or partnerships for simplicity’s sake.', 'Forming and running your small business like major US corporations can, at first, seem like a daunting undertaking, with tangled corporate regulations, checklists, and deadlines.', 'The chief benefit of forming a C corp is selling an unlimited number of shares. It’s a built-in funding method that can be crucial to any early stage small business. The C corp is not just an option for the Bill Gateses and Mary Barras of the world—it could be just what your small business needs.', 'Reach customers everywhere they are with Shopify', 'Shopify comes with powerful tools that help you promote and sell products on Facebook, Instagram, TikTok, Google, and YouTube from one back office. Make sales on multiple channels and manage everything from Shopify.', 'A C corporation (or C corp) is a type of business entity that is taxed separately from its owners. This type of business entity is required to follow corporate formalities and keep corporate records. A C corporation can have an unlimited number of shareholders and can issue any type of stock (common or preferred). The profits of a C corporation are taxed separately from the owners, which means the owners do not have to pay taxes on the corporate income.', 'A C corporation is a traditional corporation that is owned by shareholders. It is subject to double taxation, meaning the company pays corporate income tax and any profits distributed to shareholders are also taxed. An S corporation is a type of corporation that is taxed like a partnership, meaning that the income and losses are passed through to the shareholders. S corporations are not subject to double taxation.', 'No, a C corporation and an LLC are not the same, they are two completely different business structures. A C corporation is a legal entity that is separate from its shareholders and is taxed separately from its owners. An LLC, or limited liability company, is a business structure that is owned by its members and is not taxed as a separate entity, but instead passes its profits and losses through to its members.', 'Yes, C corporations pay corporate income taxes as a separate entity. C corps file Form 1120 and may take special deductions, which can offer unique tax advantages.', 'Keep up with the latest from Shopify', 'Get free ecommerce tips, inspiration, and resources delivered directly to your inbox.', 'By entering your email, you agree to receive marketing emails from Shopify.', 'popular posts', '100+ new features to grow your business', 'popular posts']
}