{
	link: 'https://www.shopify.com/blog/business-plan-examples',
	title: '7 Business Plan Examples to Inspire Your Own (2024)',
	subtitles: ['7 business plan examples: section by section', 'Types of business plans, and what to include for each', 'Set yourself up for success as a business owner', 'Business plan examples FAQ'],
	content: ['Need support creating your business plan? Check out these business plan examples for inspiration.', 'Build your', 'dream business.', 'Any aspiring entrepreneur researching how to start a business will likely be advised to write a business plan. But few resources provide business plan examples to really guide you through writing one of your own.', 'Here are some real-world and illustrative business plan examples to help you craft your business plan.', 'The business plan examples in this article follow this example template:', 'Your executive summary is a page that gives a high-level overview of the rest of your business plan. It’s easiest to save this section for last.', 'In this free business plan template, the executive summary is four paragraphs and takes a little over half a page:', '', 'You might repurpose your company description elsewhere, like on your About page, social media profile pages, or other properties that require a boilerplate description of your small business.', 'Soap brand ORRIS has a blurb on its About page that could easily be repurposed for the company description section of its business plan.', '', 'You can also go more in-depth with your company overview and include the following sections, like we did for Paw Print Post:', 'Your mission statement may also make an appearance here. Passionfruit shares its mission statement on its company website, and it would also work well in its example business plan.', '', 'The market analysis consists of research about supply and demand, your target demographics, industry trends, and the competitive landscape. You might run a SWOT analysis and include that in your business plan. ', 'Here’s an example SWOT analysis for an online tailored-shirt business:', '', 'You’ll also want to do a competitive analysis as part of the market research component of your business plan. This will tell you who you’re up against and give you ideas on how to differentiate your brand. Your competitive advantage audit might look like this:', '', 'This section of your business plan describes your offerings—which products and services do you sell to your customers? Here’s what we wrote for Paw Print Post:', '', 'It’s always a good idea to develop a marketing plan before you launch your business. Your marketing plan shows how you’ll get the word out about your business, and it’s an essential component of your business plan as well.', 'For Paw Print Post, we focused on four Ps: price, product, promotion, and place. However, you can take a different approach with your marketing plan. Maybe you can pull from your existing marketing strategy, or maybe you break it down by the different marketing channels. Whatever approach you take, your marketing plan should describe how you intend to promote your business and offerings to potential customers. It’s OK to go high level here.', 'For Paw Print Post, we looked at suppliers, production, facilities, equipment, shipping and fulfillment, and inventory.', 'The financial plan provides a breakdown of sales, revenue, profit, expenses, and other relevant financial metrics related to funding and profiting from your business.', 'Ecommerce brand Nature’s Candy’s financial plan breaks down predicted revenue, expenses, and net profit in graphs.', '', 'It then dives deeper into the financials to include:', 'You can use this financial plan spreadsheet to build your own financial statements, including income statement, balance sheet, and cash-flow statement.', 'A one-page business plan is meant to be high level and easy to understand at a glance. You’ll want to include all of the sections, but make sure they’re truncated and summarized:', 'A startup business plan is for a new business. Typically, these plans are developed and shared to secure outside funding. As such, there’s a bigger focus on the financials, as well as on other sections that determine viability of your business idea—market research, for example.', 'Your internal business plan is meant to keep your team on the same page and aligned toward the same goal.', 'A strategic, or growth, business plan is a bigger picture, more-long-term look at your business. As such, the forecasts tend to look further into the future, and growth and revenue goals may be higher. Essentially, you want to use all the sections you would in a normal business plan and build upon each.', 'Your feasibility business plan is sort of a pre-business plan—many refer to it as simply a feasibility study. This plan essentially lays the groundwork and validates that it’s worth the effort to make a full business plan for your idea. As such, it’s mostly centered around research.', 'More resources for validating your ideas:', 'Building a good business plan serves as a roadmap you can use for your ecommerce business at launch and as you reach each of your business goals. Business plans create accountability for entrepreneurs and synergy among teams, regardless of your business model.', 'Kickstart your ecommerce business and set yourself up for success with an intentional business planning process—and with the sample business plans above to guide your own path.', 'Keep up with the latest from Shopify', 'Get free ecommerce tips, inspiration, and resources delivered directly to your inbox.', 'By entering your email, you agree to receive marketing emails from Shopify.', 'popular posts', '100+ new features to grow your business', 'popular posts']
}