{
	link: 'https://www.shopify.com/blog/instagram-bio',
	title: '28 Creative Instagram Bio Ideas for 2024',
	subtitles: ['What is an Instagram bio?', 'What makes a great Instagram bio?', '28 inspiring Instagram bio ideas', 'Copy and paste templates for your Instagram bio', 'Tips and tricks to create the best bio for Instagram', 'Create a great Instagram bio for your brand', 'Instagram bio FAQ'],
	content: ['Your Instagram bio is valuable real estate. Find creative ideas for your bio and see real-world examples from notable brands and influencers.', 'New to Shopify? Try it out.', 'For free.', 'The Instagram bio often is treated as an afterthought—a line or two about your company you hastily fill out when creating your Instagram account.', 'In reality, your Instagram bio is a valuable social media marketing opportunity that welcomes users to your profile, creates a first impression of your brand, conveys key information about your business, and turns profile visitors into followers and followers into customers.', 'Ahead, get inspired by our collection of catchy and effective Instagram bio examples, discover useful tips, and learn how else you can optimize your profile to make the most of your Instagram marketing efforts.', 'An Instagram bio is a short 150-character summary about yourself or your business, displayed to other users underneath your profile photo. Your bio is commonly the first engagement you have with your audience.', 'Your Instagram bio includes:', 'It may not seem like you have much room to work with when you consider everything your profile should accomplish. The best Instagram bios will:', 'Luckily, there’s an array of Instagram features you can use alongside your written bio that help cover these considerations and create a profile that helps users quickly understand your business, what you’re selling, and how they can take further action. The tips below will help you understand how to make money from Instagram and drive traffic more effectively with a perfect bio.', 'Click to jump and browse bio ideas for each industry:', '', 'Footwear brand Manitobah Mukluks has an Instagram bio with a carefully curated visual aesthetic. Complementary Instagram bio photos and Stories thumbnails give it a clean, on-brand look. It also has a Linktree URL.', '', 'KaiKini Bikinis reiterates its brand values and product attributes in its bio. It also provides a link to the brand’s main website.', '', 'Johnny Cupcakes gives followers a peek into founder Johnny Earle’s everyday life. Social proof in the form of a nod from The Boston Globe and plenty of emojis give this Instagram bio the perfect balance of business and fun.', '', 'iHeartRaves also uses emojis, which are particularly appealing to its younger, music-festival-going audience. Its bio further includes a link to its sale items.', '', 'Patrick Adair Designs has a more subtle approach to emojis, using arrows to direct users’ eyes to its Linktree URL. Its Stories go behind the scenes and show off the custom, handmade process that goes into its rings.', '', 'Custom jewelry brand Beth Macri has a simple Instagram bio that focuses on its attributes and values—no emojis included. The bio describes the brand and directs users to a Linktree URL.', '', 'Blume’s creative Instagram bio is concise, witty, and targeted at women. It also features its main shop page on the brand’s own website, sending people to a page where they can shop directly.', '', 'Unsurprisingly, Poo-Pourri has one of those funny Instagram bios featuring a completely distinct and on-brand voice, effectively conveying its humor. A Linktree link drives users to important URLs, and it also tells people where to purchase products in-store.', '', 'Rocky Mountain Soap Company uses nature-inspired emojis, in keeping with the company’s products, and hashtags to go along with the theme. The Later link in bio link takes users to a shoppable feed.', '', 'ColourPop Cosmetics uses its Instagram bio to remind users that its products are cruelty-free. It also lets visitors know where they can find the brand in-store.', '', 'Love Hair reiterates the benefits of its products and drives users to its website homepage. It also has a Linktree link where users can click to shop.', '', 'Master & Dynamic keeps it minimal with a simple tagline and LikeShop URL. Stories highlight individual products, and the bio is simple and clean—just like M&D’s imagery. ', '', 'Quad Lock has a uniform, icon-based approach to its Stories thumbnails, with black backgrounds and striking white graphics. Its bio highlights its free shipping policy as well as a link to the brand’s main website.', '', 'Studio Proper, which also sells cases for phones and electronic devices, uses the inverse for its Stories thumbnails: a white background with black illustration. Here, the Instagram bio features the brand’s tagline, a brief description of its product attributes, a cross-promotion to its B2B channel, and its website URL.', '', 'Zero Gravity doesn’t skimp on the emojis, even using one to title its Stories. This is the first instance in this list with a link to a Jotform form where customers can submit feedback. This signals to existing and potential customers alike that doing business with ZG would be a positive experience.', '', 'Au Lit Fine Linens has a clean, simple Instagram bio. Clean graphics on a muted background make up the thumbnails for its Stories. “We change the way you sleep,” promises the brand. It uses its clickable link to promote a link in bio URL.', '', 'St. Frank leads its Instagram bio with a form of social proof: Vogue magazine giving the brand praise for its textiles products. The brand also uses the bio to promote its ethical practices, brick-and-mortar locations, and free shipping policy for qualifying orders.', '', 'Like St. Frank, Hem uses its Instagram bio space to promote its brand promise and mission. It also promotes its account dedicated to limited edition products, and includes a link in bio URL.', '', 'Floorplan Rugs uses its Instagram bio space largely to promote its bricks-and-mortar locations. It keeps things simple, with the ultimate goal of driving Instagram traffic to become website traffic or foot traffic at its store in LA.', '', 'Press Healthfoods’ Instagram bio reads like a list of bullet points, which is ideal for a quickly scrolling mobile audience. It reiterates brand values and includes a Linktree URL.', '', 'Perfect Keto seems to use emojis for one reason: to draw users’ eyes to the area it wants to emphasize. Story collections include healthy Keto tips and motivation, podcasts, and recipes, and the URL drives to a specific product page.', '', 'Ugly Drinks has an Instagram bio with an easy-to-read list approach, emojis that match the playfulness of the brand, and a nod to the causes it supports. It has a Linktree URL and also promotes the brand’s TikTok account.', '', 'Pure Cycles has a few key elements that make its Instagram bio one of the best: light use of emojis, well-designed Stories thumbnails, and a link to its website. Like some of the other examples, it also shares a CTA for customers to post UGC and tag the brand.', '', 'Faucet Face sells water bottles, but its Instagram bio is about more than just that. It uses emojis and messaging to share the brand’s mission. Stories highlight the brand’s story and how it lives its mission, health and wellness tips, footage from events, and ideas on how to give back to the community.', '', 'The Two Wheel Gear Instagram bio has five key elements that make it effective. The bio includes a tagline, description of the products, location, UGC CTA with hashtag, and a Linkpop URL.', '', 'The Giving Manger has used a number of elements in its Instagram bio: a heart-warming and emotional appeal to users, simple emoji, and website URL. Stories give a look into how the product works, what comes in each kit, and traditional ideas to start with your family.', '', 'Holstee is a bright and playful brand, and its bio reflects that. It keeps things simple, with a tagline and link in bio URL—plus minimal but beautiful design for its Stories thumbnails.', 'It might help to come up with a rough template for Instagram bios. You can use as many or as few of the following main elements as you like:', 'Before we get into how to make the best Instagram bio, let’s take a look at the elements that make up this part of your profile.', 'Since you only have a limited number of characters at your disposal, there are a handful of objectives you need to prioritize in your bio before you start optimizing the rest of your profile.', 'However you choose to express it, the first thing your bio needs to accomplish is explaining what your business offers and who you serve.', 'When new users discover you on Instagram, you quickly need to give them the info they need to stay interested. As on most social media platforms, you won’t have a user’s attention for long, so use concise copy that gets your point across quickly.', 'For many brands, such as Knix in the example below, that means explicitly spelling out who they are in clear and simple terms.', '', 'Your bio doesn’t need to rely solely on text. You can make it stand out by using:', 'The following websites are great tools for finding ways to creatively present your Instagram bio. They offer copy-and-paste options for ensuring the code and formatting matches the way you want it to look:', 'Your profile photo is one of the first things people will notice in your Instagram bio. Make sure you use a high-quality photo or image that is easy to recognize, captures the essence of your brand, and matches your other social networks.', 'Your logo is often perfect for the profile picture. Keep in mind the minimum profile picture size is 110 by 110 pixels. Stay below 200 by 200 so visitors don’t see a stretched or blurry photo when visiting your profile. ', 'Your username or handle is one of the most important aspects of your Instagram bio. It’s located at the top of the bio, and determines how people search for your brand. Use your business name if possible. If it’s already taken, make sure that the first part of your username includes your brand name, then add a small detail about your business to make your handle unique (e.g. @yourbrand_us, @yourbrand_men).', 'You can also add a display name, which will appear below the username and photo in your Instagram profile. Use this field to write out the full name of your business, complete with capital letters and spaces.', 'Featuring a call to action in your bio’s copy can be a valuable addition. Strong CTAs significantly increase the likelihood users will take the action you’re describing, because they explain exactly what to do and how to do it.', 'There are a number of different actions you can prioritize in your bio (you can even squeeze in a couple of different CTAs) so consider what would be most valuable to your business and make room for that.', 'Here are some approaches you can take with your CTAs:', 'No matter the CTA you use, there are a few best practices to keep in mind:', 'Keep in mind that you can adapt your bio to promote special events, like a seasonal sale, contest, or upcoming trade show. You can always swap in new CTAs and links to prioritize limited-time offers or events.', 'You only get one clickable link within the bio of your Instagram profile. Here, you can add a link for followers to visit your website, a Messenger bot, a specific campaign, or anywhere you want to drive traffic.', 'Since the vast majority of Instagram users are on smartphones, it’s important to make sure your bio link is optimized for mobile devices. Shopify’s free Linkpop link in bio tool allows you to create a custom URL, connecting your Instagram followers to a mobile-friendly, curated page of important links like your online store, content, products, and more.', 'Many brands link out to their website’s homepage by default until they have the chance to promote something specific. You can also link to:', 'Just be sure to adapt your bio copy to incorporate a CTA for your new link when you add one.', 'If you want to track how effective your bio link is at driving traffic relative to other Instagram sources, you can use a URL shortener like Bitly, along with UTM tracking, to measure click-throughs.', 'Whatever you choose, keep your goals in mind and how you’ll achieve them in your business profile and content. You can change your bio link as often as you want and increase its effectiveness by letting users know in individual posts and stories to check out your bio link for more info.', 'It’s extremely common for users to contact you after they come across your brand on Instagram.', 'Sometimes they’ll send you a direct message, but if that’s their only option it can quickly become hard to manage. That’s why it’s important to direct customers to your preferred channels, whether it’s a phone number, email, or even directions to your store if you have a physical location.', 'Filling out your contact information on Instagram shifts most of this responsibility from your written bio to the appropriate “action buttons” that customers can easily find when they visit your profile.', 'You can do this by editing your profile and tapping Contact Options.', '', 'From here, you can enter contact information or channels that make it easy for customers to reach you, such as:', ' ', 'People will use the contact information you provide, so only enter information for customer service channels you actually support. If you don’t have a phone line dedicated for customer support, don’t add in your personal phone number just because you want to have something there.', 'This contact info will appear as clickable buttons on your profile when viewed through Instagram’s mobile app.', 'You may have noticed the Shop action button in some of the examples above.', 'The Shop tab will appear by default after you set up Shopping on Instagram and start tagging images with product tags. You can easily set this up in your own Shopify store.', 'The Shop tab is also home to all the content featuring your product tags, giving users the opportunity to shop your collection through the photos you’ve posted. They can tap on any of these photos to view them and to learn more about the products featured and tap once more to visit the product page on your website to make a purchase.', 'Try to only use product tags on photos that clearly show off your products in order to create a carefully curated gallery under your Shop tab.', 'Instagram Stories are an essential part of Instagram marketing, and Story Highlights are groups of Stories you can present as clickable thumbnails on your Instagram profile. Highlights give Stories a longer lasting presence on your profile, and you get to name and organize them as you see fit.', 'These Highlights will live in your profile indefinitely, right underneath your bio, above your feed, and when clicked will show the saved Stories one after another. United By Blue has curated Stories for product collections, its environmental cleanups, its online store, news, and press.', '', 'Highlights are made up of two parts:', 'Not only will your expired Stories of the day be given a longer lifespan, but you’ll be able to feature content that strongly represents your brand at the top of your feed, where users are most likely to see it.', 'This gives you a chance to control the narrative, and even produce Stories with the express purpose of turning them into Highlights.', 'Creating Highlights is easy:', 'There are countless ways you can organize your Highlights, but some of the more common themes include:', 'To give followers extra incentive to jump over to your site and make a purchase, consider putting a coupon code in your bio. Nutriseed does this in its Instagram bio, offering followers 10% off their first order.', '', 'Discounts and promo codes are proven conversion drivers. Not only do they drive users to your site to make a purchase, they also give you a more accurate way to track these conversions. Use a code unique in your Instagram bio so you can see exactly how many sales you’re driving.', 'Then dig deeper into the data and see what those people are buying. Use those insights to inform your Instagram strategy. If there’s lots of interest in a particular product, do a Q&A on your Stories about it. Partner with a local Instagram influencer to promote your brand. The possibilities for insights truly are endless.', 'As you build relationships with others on Instagram and post new content for your current followers, be sure to check our tips on how to get more Instagram followers and what to post on Instagram. Users are bound to visit your profile out of curiosity or for a quick update about your small business. ', 'With these Instagram bio ideas in hand, you can make a strong first impression on behalf of your brand and convince visitors to stick around for a while, or even follow along.', 'There are up to 150 characters in an Instagram bio. That seems like a lot of room for your content, and it can be, but your word choice must be concise and impactful.', 'To add a link to your Instagram bio:', 'To center your Instagram bio:', 'The amount of spaces you add to the text will dictate if it gets centered or not. If not, go back to Notes and adjust the spaces as you like.', 'To edit your business information on Instagram:', 'To add the location of your business on Instagram:', 'Keep up with the latest from Shopify', 'Get free ecommerce tips, inspiration, and resources delivered directly to your inbox.', 'By entering your email, you agree to receive marketing emails from Shopify.', 'popular posts', '100+ new features to grow your business', 'popular posts']
}