{
	link: 'https://www.shopify.com/blog/how-to-get-business-insurance',
	title: 'How to Get Business Insurance in 6 Simple Steps',
	subtitles: ['How to get business insurance', 'How to get business insurance FAQs'],
	content: ['Learn how to get business insurance to protect your business’s assets in the case of a claim against your business.', 'Start your online business today.', 'For free.', 'Picture this: You’re a small business owner with a shop in your local business district. One morning, as you’re mopping the floor, a customer walks in. All is well, until they slip, fall, and break their arm. The customer doesn’t have health insurance, and before you know it, you’re getting sued to cover their medical expenses and more.', 'Bizarre twists of fate canhappen to any type of small business—including ecommerce businesses—and they can shutter your business, fast. Small business insurance coverage can help protect you from a full gamut of random events that are out of your control. Below are key steps that can take you from assessing your insurance needs to finding the right policy—all while helping protect your bottom line.', 'Business insurance is a way to protect businesses from unexpected financial losses. Here are six simple steps to help you get the right small business insurance to best protect your personal and business assets:', 'It’s a common misconception that if your business is small, it doesn’t need insurance. But small business insurance can serve both you and your venture in multiple ways, including:', 'Asking yourself “Do I need business insurance?” is just the beginning. There are many types of business insurance, and understanding them will help you determine which type is the best fit for your business. Some of the most common types of insurance that small businesses choose are:', 'Not every business needs every type of insurance. If you’re a business of one and work from home as an accountant, it may be wise to get professional liability coverage but unnecessary to buy workers’ compensation insurance. Alternatively, some types of businesses have greater risk baked into them. Factors to consider when evaluating which insurance is the right fit include:', 'Lynne McChristian, senior instructor of finance at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign and director of the Office of Risk Management and Insurance Research, proposes business owners ask themselves three key questions to begin assessing their unique business risks:', 'Additional questions you may ask yourself include: What is the value of the assets needing protection? How much business revenue and expenses are projected for the year? How many employees are there?', 'When starting the insurance process, collect business records on payroll, accounting, assets, and the number of employees, which may be requested by the insurance professional you’re working with. These documents may show business location, annual sales, tools and equipment, and leasing agreements, among other details.', 'It’s your choice how you want to gather insurance quotes—work with a broker, comparison shop through a third-party website like Insureon or Simply Insurance, or contact an insurance provider directly.', 'If you do choose to work with an insurance broker, seek out one that has experience working with businesses similar to yours. If they have a track record of picking and choosing plans that align with your industry, it’s more likely that you’ll end up with an insurance policy that’s beneficial to your needs. If unsure where to start, keep the following in mind:', 'If you know a fellow business owner in your industry, consider reaching out to them directly to see what insurance providers they use. For example, if you’re a yoga instructor and know that you need to sign up for general liability insurance, other instructors can be excellent resources to get recommendations for solid providers.', 'There is a world of insurance providers out there that cater specifically to small businesses. Research company ratings, accessibility, and customer satisfaction. Or, work with a broker who has experience in your field to help you find your insurance fit.', 'Specific insurance plans exist to cater to unique workers and workplaces. There are policies available that align with rideshare drivers and insurance plans for boats. Even if you have a small business that doesn’t fit into a traditional mold, there are applicable products, providers, and brokers to help.', 'McChristian offers these additional tips for businesses seeking the best insurance to fit their needs:', 'Read through and review your policy to make sure you fully understand the conditions, exclusions, and other sections of the agreement. Discuss any questions or concerns with an insurance provider or broker—this can be an opportunity to customize the policy to best fit your needs. Next, you’re ready to sign and purchase your new policy.', 'After signing your first insurance policy, put a reminder on your calendar to revisit the policy a year later, prior to the end of the term date.', '“Think of the one-year assessment as a physical checkup for your business,” says McChristian.', 'She explains that conducting an annual wellness check for your business is important because your risks may change as your business evolves—and any policies must keep up with those changes.', '“What you need one year might not be the same the next year,” McChristian says.', 'For example, you may have more clients than you did a year before, so your insurance may need to be updated to reflect that heightened risk. You have the power to bulk up or pare down your policy each year, as needed.', '“The best insurance is comprehensive, acknowledges and covers all your business risks, and protects your personal finances from things that might happen,” McChristian says.', 'It depends on what type of business you have, but a great baseline is general liability insurance. This generally protects you and your small business in claims of personal injury, property damage, and even libel or slander if your business is sued by a customer or member of the public.', 'If you have employees, most state laws require that you have workers’ compensation insurance, although details vary by state.', 'Common types of business insurance are general liability insurance, commercial auto insurance, workers’ compensation insurance, cyber liability insurance, professional liability insurance, business interruption insurance, and commercial property insurance. However, your business may only need certain types of insurance.', 'Keep up with the latest from Shopify', 'Get free ecommerce tips, inspiration, and resources delivered directly to your inbox.', 'By entering your email, you agree to receive marketing emails from Shopify.', 'popular posts', '100+ new features to grow your business', 'popular posts']
}