{
	link: 'https://www.shopify.com/blog/15334373-small-business-accounting-101-ten-steps-to-get-your-startup-on-track',
	title: 'Small Business Accounting: 12 Tips for Taxes and Bookkeeping',
	subtitles: ['What is small business accounting?', '12 Accounting basics for small businesses', '🏁 How to start a business recommendations', 'Best small business accounting software', 'Know your numbers to grow your business', 'Small business accounting FAQ'],
	content: ['If you’ve just launched or are about to launch your online store, congratulations! To keep the good times rolling, you’ll need to learn the basic small business accounting tasks that come along with owning a store—and quickly.', 'Start your online business today.', 'For free.', 'With the launch of your small business, you’ll need to get on top of the accounting tasks that come along with owning a store. While accounting may not be the most exciting part of growing your business, it’s crucial to start off on the right foot.', 'In this guide, we’ll cover everything you need to know about small-business accounting, as well as some of the best accounting software to consider so you can move to the next step on your small-business finance to-do list.', 'Small-business accounting is a set of financial activities for the processing, measurement, and communication of a business’s finances. These activities include taxes, management, payroll, acquisition, and inventory.', 'Bookkeeping 101', 'Bookkeeping is something that you either have to learn or outsource when you’re running a business. Luckily, it’s possible to learn how to manage your own books and there are a few notable benefits to tackling it yourself.', 'A separate bank account for business protects your personal assets in the unfortunate case of bankruptcy, lawsuits, or audits. If you want funding down the line, from creditors or investors, strong business financial records can increase the likelihood of approvals.', 'Start by opening up a checking account, followed by any savings accounts that will help you organize cash flow funds and plan for taxes. For instance, you can set up a savings account and squirrel away a percentage of each payment as your self-employed tax withholding. A good rule of thumb is to put 25% of your income aside, though estimates for high earners might be closer to one-third.', 'Note that LLCs (See our state specific guides for California LLCs, Texas LLCs, and Florida LLCs), partnerships, and corporations are legally required to have a separate bank account for business. Sole proprietors don’t legally need a separate account, but it’s definitely recommended.', 'Next, as a new small business owner, you’ll want to consider a business credit card to start building credit. Credit is important for securing funding, as well as potentially financing large purchase orders in the future. Corporations and LLCs must use a separate credit card to avoid commingling personal and business assets.', 'Depending on the type of business transactions you’ll be making, different business credit cards have different perks. If you plan on spending a lot on travel, for example, a business credit card that offers miles may be ideal. Shopify Credit, for example, offers cash back on the category you spend on the most.', 'To open a business bank account, you’ll need a business name, and you may have to be registered with your state or province. Check with each bank to find out which documents are required.', 'Earn cashback rewards with Shopify Credit', 'Get up to 3% cashback on your eligible marketing spend, including on TikTok, Meta, and Google, using Shopify Credit—the business card designed for Shopify entrepreneurs. No fees, no interest, no credit checks.', 'The foundation of solid business bookkeeping is effective and accurate expense tracking. It’s a crucial step that lets you monitor the growth of your business, build financial statements, keep track of deductible expenses, prepare tax returns, and legitimize your filings.', 'From the start, establish an accounting system for organizing receipts and other important records. This process can be simple and old school, or you can use a service like Shoeboxed. For US store owners, the IRS doesn’t require you to keep receipts for expenses under $75, but it’s a good habit, nonetheless.', 'There are five types of receipts to pay special attention to:', 'Starting your business at home is a great way to keep overhead low. Plus, you'll qualify for unique tax breaks. You can deduct the portion of your home that's used for business, as well as your home internet, cellphone, and transportation to and from work and for business errands.', 'Any expense that's used partly for personal use and partly for business must reflect that mixed use. For instance, if you have one phone, you can deduct the percentage you use the device for business. Wi-Fi can often fall under this category as well. Gas mileage costs are 100% deductible, just be sure to hold on to all records and keep a log of your business miles (where you're going and the purpose of the trip).', 'Bookkeeping is the day-to-day accounting process of recording business transactions, categorizing them, and reconciling bank statements.', 'Accounting is a high-level process that looks at business progress and makes sense of the data a bookkeeper compiles in financial statements. As a new entrepreneur, you’ll need to determine how you want to manage your books:', 'With many paid and free accounting software options out there, you’re sure to find a bookkeeping solution that will suit your business needs.', 'Small business owners also need to determine whether they’ll use the cash or accrual accounting methods. Let’s take a look at the difference between the two.', 'Technically, Canadians are required to use the accrual method. To simplify things, you can use the cash method throughout the year and then make a single adjusting entry at year end to account for outstanding receivables and payables for tax purposes.', 'US business owners can use cash-based accounting if revenues are less than $5 million, otherwise they must use the accrual method. ', 'Many online stores start out as a one-person show. But as a small business owner, there comes the time where it makes sense to hire outside help. To do this, you need to establish whether that individual is an employee or an independent contractor.', 'For employees, you'll have to set up a payroll schedule and ensure you're withholding the correct taxes. There are lots of services that can help with this, and many accounting software options offer payroll as a feature.', 'For independent contractors, be sure to track how much you're paying each person. US small business owners may be required to file 1099s for each contractor at year end (you'll also need to keep their name and address on file for this).', 'Depending on your business model, you may be planning to purchase and import goods from other countries to sell in your store. When importing products, you’ll likely be subject to taxes and duties, which is worth noting if you run a dropshipping business.', 'If you’re importing goods, a duty calculator can help you estimate the fees in your own business and plan for costs. For more about import taxes, visit the International Trade Administration (for US businesses) or the Canadian Border Services Agency.', 'When sales start rolling in, you’ll need a way to accept payments. If you’re a North American store owner on Shopify, you can use Shopify Payments to accept debit or credit card orders. This saves you the hassle of setting up a merchant account or third-party payment gateway.', '', ' ', 'If you use a third-party payment processor, fees vary. Some processors charge an interchange plus rate, typically around 2.9%, and $0.30 per transaction. Others charge flat fees for each transaction, while some have a monthly membership model for unlimited financial transactions. You can consult this list to help you find a payment gateway that will work for your location.', 'Start accepting payments fast with Shopify Payments', 'Skip lengthy third-party activations and go from setup to selling in one click. Shopify Payments comes with your Shopify plan, all you need to do is turn it on.', 'The world of ecommerce has made it easier than ever to sell to customers outside of your state and country. While this is a great opportunity for brands with growth goals, it introduces confusing sales tax regulations that can cause headaches down the line.', 'When a customer walks into a brick-and-mortar retail store, they pay the sales tax of whatever state or province they make the purchase in, no matter if they live there or visiting from somewhere else. However, when you sell online, customers may be located in different cities, states, provinces, and even countries.', 'Canadian store owners only need to start collecting Goods and Services Tax (GST) and Harmonized Sales Tax (HST) when they have revenues of $30,000 or more in a 12-month period. You can submit the GST/HST you collect in installments. If you want, you can collect GST/HST even if you don’t earn this much in revenue, and put it toward input tax credits.', 'Selling to international customers can be easier than domestic sales. Canadian store owners don’t need to charge GST/HST to customers who are outside of Canada.', 'For US small businesses, sales tax gets a bit trickier. You’ll need to determine if you operate your business in an origin-based state or a destination-based state. In the former, you must charge sales tax based on the state where you run your business. The latter requires sales tax to be applied based on the purchaser’s location.', 'International purchases are tax exempt for US-based businesses. This can all get a bit complicated, so check in with your accountant for detailed information about your specific state’s regulations regarding international sales tax.', 'Tax obligations vary depending on your business structure. If you’re self-employed (sole proprietorship, LLC, partnership), you’ll claim business income on your personal tax return. Corporations, on the other hand, are separate tax entities and are taxed independently from owners. Your income from the corporation is taxed as an employee.', 'If you’re ever in doubt about potential tax obligations, it’s wise to talk to a tax professional. Despite the cost, it can save you lots of time and money down the line.', 'Improving your store’s gross margin is the first step toward earning more income overall. In order to calculate gross margin, you need to know the costs incurred to produce your product. To understand this better, let’s quickly define both cost of goods sold (COGS) and gross margin.', 'Here’s how you can go about calculating gross margin:', 'Gross margin (%) = (revenue - COGS) / revenue', 'You can also use our free profit margin calculator to plug in your numbers for a quick calculation. ', 'The difference between how much you sell a product for and how much the business actually takes home at the end of the day is what truly determines your ability to keep the doors open.', 'You might have an unexpected downturn in sales due to uncontrollable external circumstances, or maybe you need a financial boost during slow periods in a seasonal business. Brands with big growth goals often need to secure funding to make investments in new product developments, inventory, retail stores, hiring, and more.', 'Remember, to get a small business loan, you’ll likely have to provide financial statements—a balance sheet and income statement at the very least, possibly a cash flow statement, as well. Shopify Capital makes it simple for Shopify merchants to secure funding. Loans and advances are calculated based on a store’s previous sales, and repayments are made back through the store’s future sales.', 'Before you sign off on the debt, it’s important to calculate the return on investment (ROI) of the loan. Add up all the expenses you need the loan to cover, the expected new revenue you’ll get from the loan, and the total cost of interest. You can use our business loan calculator to find out the total cost.', 'Get funding to run your business with Shopify Capital', 'Shopify Capital makes it easy to get funding quickly and use it for inventory, marketing, and more. Automatically make payments as a percentage of your daily sales. No compounding interest. No schedules. No surprises.', 'As a small-business owner, you’ll want to have an understanding of generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). It’s not a rule, but it helps you measure and understand your company’s finances.', 'If you need a little extra financial planning help or guidance, many small business accountants and financial professionals can help you get more control of your money. There are a few types of individuals you might want to consider enlisting:', 'When you first start out you may opt to use a simple spreadsheet to manage your books, but as you grow you’ll want to consider more advanced methods like QuickBooks or Bench. Business financial statements naturally get more complex as you grow.', 'It’s important to continually reassess the amount of time you’re spending on your books and how much that time is costing your business. This is why learning accounting basics is so important, even if you don’t intend on always doing the accounting yourself.', 'The right bookkeeping solution means you can invest more time in the business with bookkeeping no longer on your plate and potentially save the business money.', 'Every business owner needs good accounting software to avoid wasting time with manual data entry. Small-business accounting software is something you use to access financial information quickly and easily. It lets you check bank balances, understand revenue and costs, estimate profitability, predict tax liabilities, and more.', 'Once you connect your business bank accounts and credit cards to a software, financial transactions show up in a queue and are grouped into categories. You can find all this information on your chart of accounts. Once you approve of the categories, transactions automatically settle in your financial statements.', 'Some features to look for in your account software include:', 'There are many user-friendly accounting software options for small businesses, ranging from free to paid models. You can also browse the Shopify App store for an accounting software that will seamlessly integrate with your ecommerce store.', 'Check out the following accounting software you could use to manage your books.', 'Xero is a cloud-based accounting system designed for small and growing businesses. You can connect with a trusted adviser and gain visibility into your financial health. It can be accessed from any device. Plus, with Xero’s advanced accounting features, you can view your cash flow, transactions, and other financial information from anywhere.', 'Benefits: ', 'QuickBooks Online is a small business accounting software run by Intuit. You can use it to snap and store receipts for expenses, track your income and expenses, and more. ', 'QuickBooks shows all your costs, such as inventory and maintenance costs, and every sale your business makes over a period of time. It also offers inventory automation using perpetual inventory tracking, so your sales and inventory cost are updated every time you make a sale. You can also integrate QuickBooks with Shopify to stay organized and up to date. ', 'Benefits:', 'Wave is a web-based accounting solution built for small businesses. With its bank reconciliation feature, you can link your bank accounts, PayPal accounts, and other data sources to see real-time business transactions. You can also generate reports such as accounts receivable, balance sheets, sales tax reports, and accounts payable.', 'Benefits:', 'FreshBooks is a cloud-based accounting and invoice management software for small businesses. It offers expense management, core accounting, and everything you need to take care of basic bookkeeping.', 'Benefits:', 'While there is no shortage of accounting and tax tools to choose from, ultimately you want to use a tool you feel comfortable using and intend to use for a long time. You can always switch tools of course, but that can be a timely process you want to avoid where possible.', 'Starting a business can be an overwhelming process. By doing your homework regarding banking, transaction management, fundraising, and other accounting topics, you’ll have your new store’s finances in order from the beginning. From opening the right type of business credit card to determining how much revenue you’ll bring in per product, these tasks will all contribute to your business’s success, now and as it grows.', 'Visit the Shopify Experts Marketplace', 'Find experienced commerce professionals who will help you grow your business. Browse the different services Shopify experts offer, post a job, and hire a professional to work with.', 'You can set up basic small business accounting records in a spreadsheet, though this is more tedious, prone to manual errors, and time consuming than a comprehensive small-business accounting software. At the very least, you’ll want to track expenses and income in a secure cloud-based platform.', 'Small-business accountants range in price, depending on a number of factors. The Bureau of Labor Statistics estimates in-house accountants make an average annual salary of over $70,000. If you’re outsourcing to a contractor or accounting firm, costs vary from a few hundred dollars per month to thousands per month, depending on your needs.
', ' ', 'Keep up with the latest from Shopify', 'Get free ecommerce tips, inspiration, and resources delivered directly to your inbox.', 'By entering your email, you agree to receive marketing emails from Shopify.', 'popular posts', '100+ new features to grow your business', 'popular posts']
}