{
	link: 'https://www.shopify.com/blog/b2c-vs-d2c',
	title: 'B2C vs. D2C: Choosing Between B2C and D2C Sales',
	subtitles: ['What is B2C?', 'What is D2C?', 'B2C vs. D2C', 'Pros and cons of B2C', 'Pros and cons of D2C', 'B2C vs. D2C FAQ'],
	content: ['Selling products to consumers can be a successful business—but whether you should sell to consumers directly or via retailers depends on your goals.', 'New to Shopify? Try it out.', 'For free.', 'When you sell online, you can offer your goods and services directly to your customers, or you can use online sales channels set up by a third party. Both approaches fall under the business-to-consumer (B2C) model, but the former—the direct-to-consumer model (D2C)—allows you unmediated access to your target audience. Each business model has unique traits with respect to customer acquisition and marketing. Here’s a rundown of D2C versus B2C, with the pros and cons of each.', 'B2C, or sometimes BTC, stands for “business to consumer.” It describes a business model where companies sell products to consumers. The B2C model is often contrasted with B2B, or the business-to-business model, where one business sells to another business.', 'B2C businesses may sell to customers directly on their own online stores, or via online marketplaces like Amazon and AliExpress. B2C businesses also sell products in brick-and-mortar retail outlets like grocery, department, electronics, clothing, and hardware stores. For instance, the clothing designer Hugo Boss sells clothing in retail stores like Nordstrom and Macy’s. B2C companies can also sell via smaller, boutique stores that specialize in specific product types—such as Sweetwater for musical instruments. Social media channels also serve as venues for B2C sales. For instance, Instagram has ecommerce functionality that allows companies to showcase products and users to buy without leaving the social media app.', 'Reach customers everywhere they are with Shopify', 'Shopify comes with powerful tools that help you promote and sell products on Facebook, Instagram, TikTok, Google, and YouTube, from one back office. Make sales on multiple channels and manage everything from Shopify.', 'D2C, or sometimes DTC, is short for “direct to consumer.” D2C businesses fall under the B2C umbrella; they’re companies that sell their goods and services to an end consumer without third-party involvement.', 'For instance, when you sell products directly from your website’s ecommerce store, you bypass external sales channels and have a direct relationship with shoppers. To sell directly to end consumers, D2C companies may partner with an ecommerce platform like Shopify to create an online store and set up payment processing.', 'The D2C business model also works in physical stores owned and operated by the company that makes the store’s products. These are in contrast to department stores, big-box stores, and multi-brand stores that feature goods from many different companies. D2C stores give the company the opportunity for direct interaction with individual customers.', 'There are several differences between the business-to-consumer model and its subcategory, the direct-to-consumer model. Those differences, which range from the customer experience to operational costs, include:', 'The B2C sales model comes with notable benefits and drawbacks. Here’s a rundown:', 'The D2C approach offers significant advantages in terms of customer relationships and control over branding. It also poses challenges related to initial setup costs, target market penetration, and logistical operations. Here are notable benefits and challenges:', 'Third-party logistics providers (3PLs) support direct-to-consumer (D2C) businesses by handling various aspects of supply chain and logistics operations. They bring expertise on topics like the wholesale buying process and order fulfillment.', 'An example of a B2C sales model is a company selling goods via established marketplaces as part of an omnichannel distribution strategy. The fashion house Ralph Lauren has taken this approach to clothing sales. An example of the D2C approach would be selling products straight to the customer using an online store. Dollar Shave Club successfully built and scaled a business based on the D2C model.', 'B2B stands for “business to business”—for instance, a software company selling its products to a computer manufacturer. B2C stands for “business to consumer,” such as Nordstrom selling clothing made by an outside manufacturer. D2C stands for “direct to consumer,” where companies sell to end customers without an intermediary (such as TULA selling its skin care products on its own website).', 'Keep up with the latest from Shopify', 'Get free ecommerce tips, inspiration, and resources delivered directly to your inbox.', 'By entering your email, you agree to receive marketing emails from Shopify.', 'popular posts', '100+ new features to grow your business', 'popular posts']
}