{
	link: 'https://www.shopify.com/blog/online-logo-makers',
	title: '11 Best Free and Paid Online Logo Makers',
	subtitles: ['Why a professional logo is important to your brand', 'Best free logo makers: apps and generators', 'Best paid logo creator tools online', 'Free logo design templates', 'Logo design tips', 'Design your own logo today', 'Best logo maker FAQ'],
	content: ['Even with limited design experience, you can create a standout logo for your business.', 'Start your online business today.', 'For free.', 'Your logo is more than just a group of symbols, letters, and colors. It’s the first thing customers recognize about your business. It can be one of the driving forces behind the success of your business, or a bad logo can limit your marketing and sales efforts.', 'And yet, despite its importance, as a new business owner, it can be hard to cough up the money to pay for a professional logo designer. If you have little to no design experience, creating the perfect logo can seem like an impossible task.', 'If this sounds like you, don’t sweat it. This article will walk you through the best logo makers, plus a few affordable options if you have a little extra room in your budget. ', 'When it comes to your brand, first impressions matter. And the quality of your logo will ultimately determine the first impression you give off. A well designed logo can build trust and authority among your customers. A bad logo, on the other hand, can leave customers choosing to go with your competitor.', 'The effects of a low quality logo can be amplified across different channels—like social media, web, and print—if the colors or layout are done poorly. ', 'You may have the best product or service in your industry, but an amateur looking logo can turn people off from giving your brand a try.', 'On the flip side, a well-designed business logo can:', 'A small business might not get far without a good logo. It can make you memorable, express your unique selling proposition, and connect with your audience, which can lead to better retention and sales over time. ', 'Let’s look at some of the best paid and free logo makers to start designing your logo now. ', 'Coming up with a well-designed, unique logo can be challenging. It can feel like you don’t know where to start and you’ll have to hire a professional designer to get the job done. ', 'To help you find the perfect logo (without breaking the bank), we’ve put together a list of the best free logo makers online so you can make sure your branding design is memorable and differentiates you from the competition.', '', 'If you’re looking for the best free logo maker online, Shopify has got you covered. As a mobile app for iOS and Android it helps you build a brand from scratch, right from the palm of your hand. It’s also trusted by 140,000+ business owners.', 'Just answer a few questions about your business and our logo maker will suggest logos from hundreds of available templates. From there, you can take advantage of the following benefits:', 'This logo maker is free to use, whether you’re a Shopify merchant or not. There are premium logo templates you can buy within the app if you want something a little more professional. That said, you’ll only be charged if you decide to download them. Overall, it’s a handy tool if you’re looking to create a DIY logo for free. ', 'Shopify Academy Course: How to Get Started on Shopify', 'Looking for a guided tour of Shopify? Merchant Success Manager and entrepreneur Samantha Renée shares steps to customizing your shop, adding a product, and making your first sale.', '', 'Canva is probably the most hands-on logo designer on the list and can be great for beginners. Canva also has a fairly intuitive design process making it easy to get started. The templates are broken down by niches such as badges, art/design, fashion, sports, food and drink, automotive, and more. ', 'Some of the logos in this creator are clever and fun, but you’ll have to do the editing on your own. Canva’s design tool makes it really simple and there are support articles to help if you get stuck on anything. Once you finish your design, you can download a high-resolution logo for free and use it as you please.If you’ve ever used Canva for other design work, you’ll have no trouble getting up to speed quickly. It has become an incredibly popular logo creator tool for good reason.', '', 'Logo Maker by Ucraft is a free logo generator that helps you create a professional logo in just a few clicks. You’ll find a selection of icons, fonts, and shapes to use for designing a logo from scratch. Then, you can export your new logo in PNG format for free or in SVG or EPS format for $7.', 'The result? You’ll get a high-resolution PNG file, so you can reuse it everywhere—and it’s completely free.', '', 'Website building platform Squarespace also has a free logo creator that makes high-quality logos from scratch. While they don’t have as many options as some of the others options listed above, their logo builder gives you enough to get started.', 'You do have to sign up for a free account, but can download your created logo up. If you use Squarespace for your website, it can be helpful to keep all your assets and branding under one roof. The logo editor also gives you the ability to easily see how your logo will look on business cards, your website, and even clothing apparel.', 'The following online makers are free to try. Some of them will allow you to download a low-resolution JPEG of your logo, but you’ll have to pay to download the vector files.', '', 'Looka is an interactive, AI-powered online logo design tool. When you visit Looka’s website, you enter your company name and click Get Started. You’re then prompted to type in your industry, be it consulting, restaurant, beauty, etc. ', 'Once you input your industry, you’ll choose five or more logos for Looka to use as inspiration for your own. You can then pick your favorite color palette and give a little more information about your company. Lastly, you’ll select symbols for your logo, or you can have Looka pick the best symbols for you. Design using artificial intelligence continues to grow in popularity, as there are plenty of options to choose from spanning a wide range of creative styles.', 'The tool suggests 12 logos at first, but you can load more ideas. Once you choose a logo you like, Looka will take you to an editor where you can make any last minute changes before downloading it. You can download the logo for $20 or pay for an entire brand kit subscription (with letterheads, social media icons, invoices, etc.) for $96 per year. ', '', 'Tailor Brands Logo Maker offers a great free online logo creator. It asks you to enter a logo name (or any business name idea) and a tagline that describes your brand. You’re then prompted to give more information about your business including:', 'It then asks you a few questions about your style preferences. You’ll be asked to choose which logo types and font styles you prefer. By answering these questions, you’ll have a more targeted list of logos to choose from. It’ll also display your logo on business cards, social media profiles, t-shirts, and other branded assets. One thing to note: you’ll have to sign up for Tailor Brands’ email list to see your logo options. ', '', 'Logomaker allows you to make a logo online in minutes and is especially well known for the platform's ease of use. Simply select your industry and add your brand name on the first screen. Then click Make A Logo, and you’ll be prompted to choose logo types, font styles, and layouts. Then you’ll see a list of logo design ideas you can edit and save to make it your own.', 'If you want to own the copyright and download the vector files, you’ll have to pay a fee.', '', ' ', 'If you’re looking for premium logos, this online logo design tool will give you dozens of high-quality options to choose from. Designhill asks you a series of questions about your brand, then provides tailored options based on your answers. You can tweak colors, slogans, symbols, and other customization options to determine which style best fits your brand. ', 'Designhill offers different payment options for your company logo, too. You can buy the logo file for $20, or you can buy logo files to use when building your website, social media, print, packaging, and branding for a $65 one-time payment. ', '', 'BrandCrowd is another logo creation site for business owners. This one gives you logo ideas once you enter your business name and click Make Logos Now. You can also browse BrandCrowd inspiration before giving away any information. Once you find the perfect logo, you can personalize it in BrandCrowd’s editing tool. You’ll be able to tailor the layout, colors, text, shadows, and other design elements to fit your brand.', 'When you’re happy with your design, you can buy it for a fee and get high-resolution files and multiple logo variations.', '', 'If you’re looking for a powerful do-it-yourself logo design software, GraphicSprings is a good choice for you. You just have to enter your business name and tagline (optional) and an editor will appear. You’ll have access to a library of logos to start from, then you can customize any part to make it your own.', 'One of the great features it has is the ability to break down logo types depending on your business. Here are some examples:', 'Food and drink', 'Abstract', 'Letter-based', 'You can also hire someone from the GraphicSprings team to create a totally custom logo for you, if you aren’t satisfied with its logo creator. The logo generator is free to use, but you’ll need to pay $19.99 to save the design files.', '', 'Placeit offers over 13,000 different logo designs for you to choose from. All you need to do is enter your business name and industry into the generator and a list of cool logos will appear. Each logo has its own color scheme and aesthetic. ', 'They’re also fully customizable. Simply click the logo you want and you’ll end up in Placeit’s editing tool. You can change text, symbols, color schemes, and more to create the best logo for your brand. Once you’re finished with the design, you can download that logo and others for $9.99 per month.', 'A free logo design template can help build a memorable logo in minutes. Shopify's pre-design templates include all the color schemes and design elements you need to create a professional looking logo in minutes. ', '', 'There are hundreds of templates and designs that fit any brand. You can access all of them for free, letting you create beautiful logos that stand out and connect with potential customers. Even if you don’t have design experience, you can still build a business logo you can be proud of—Shopify makes it super easy.', 'When it comes to designing a logo, there are a few universal rules that can help your brand resonate with customers. Your logo should reflect your brand and what it stands for. It needs to be memorable, simple, and versatile. These five tips can help you:', 'Here are some common mistakes that we’ve come across when digging through thousands of ecommerce logos. Be sure to avoid these critical design errors when using one of the above online logo designers:', 'If you’re ever in doubt when creating your logo, you can always hire a graphic designer to help. Head to the Shopify Experts to find one and make your business stand out.', 'Once you have the perfect logo, check out our hand-picked list of some of the best ecommerce website designs to inspire you!', 'Now you have a great idea of where to get started with designing your brand’s logo. With all of the logo design tools and resources above, you’re well on your way.', 'Illustration by Rose Wong', 'Keep up with the latest from Shopify', 'Get free ecommerce tips, inspiration, and resources delivered directly to your inbox.', 'By entering your email, you agree to receive marketing emails from Shopify.', 'popular posts', '100+ new features to grow your business', 'popular posts']
}