{
	link: 'https://www.shopify.com/blog/how-to-start-an-llc-in-idaho',
	title: 'Idaho LLC: How To Start an LLC in Idaho in 11 Steps',
	subtitles: ['What is an LLC?', 'Is an LLC right for you?', '1. Name your Idaho LLC', '2. Create a business plan', '3. Get a federal employer identification number (EIN)', '4. File an Idaho Certificate of Organization', '5. Choose a registered agent in Idaho', '6. Obtain business licenses and permits', '7. Understand Idaho state tax requirements', '8. Prepare an operating agreement', '9. Examine business insurance options in Idaho', '10. Understanding financial considerations', '11. Market your Idaho LLC', 'Starting an LLC in Idaho FAQ'],
	content: ['Thinking about starting an LLC in Idaho? Here’s how to get your Idaho LLC up and running in 11 steps.', 'Build your', 'dream business.', 'This post is for information only. You are responsible for reviewing and using this information appropriately. This content doesn’t contain and isn’t meant to provide legal, tax, or business advice. Requirements are updated frequently, and you should make sure to do your own research and reach out to professional legal, tax, and business advisers, as needed. Businesses outside of Idaho will have different steps and requirements. To sell products using the Shopify platform, you must comply with the laws of the jurisdiction of your business and your customers, the Shopify Terms of Service, the Shopify Acceptable Use Policy, and any other applicable policies.', 'By the end of 2023, new business applications in Idaho were up over 10% compared to 2022, according to the US Chamber of Commerce. That mark ranks No. 17 in the nation. With relatively few regulations and taxes, Idaho offers aspiring business owners a low bar to entry. This step-by-step guide can help you navigate the Idaho LLC formation process.', 'How to start an Idaho LLC', 'An LLC, or limited liability company, is a popular legal structure for small businesses. This business type can be formed by one person (in the case of single-owner LLCs) or multiple people. These owners are usually called “members,” but the State of Idaho refers to them as “governors.”', 'LLCs offer their governors personal liability protection from any debts or lawsuits the business takes on. In contrast, sole proprietorship creates no legal distinction between business and owner, so their personal assets could be at risk. ', 'While LLC governors enjoy legal separation from their business for personal asset protection, they are still able to include the business’s income on their personal tax returns. This is because an LLC’s default tax status categorizes them as pass-through entities, meaning profits pass through the businesses themselves and land on the owners. This handy system not only saves paperwork, it avoids double taxation, which is when a corporation is taxed on its profits, and then shareholders are taxed on their dividends on top of that. ', 'LLCs combine some of the best qualities of sole proprietorships and corporations, making them a great choice for many small businesses in Idaho and across the country. But are they right for your next venture? Here are a few questions to consider:', 'As you brainstorm in pursuit of the perfect name for your business, ask yourself a few questions to vet your ideas.', 'Idaho LLCs are not required have an assumed business name (ABN), also called a doing business as (DBA) in other states, but you have the option to use one if you ever want to operate your business under a different name than what’s listed on your Certificate of Organization (though you will continue to use the legal LLC name for tax purposes). You can even create multiple ABNs under a single LLC, which can be useful if your business has more than one location.', 'Writing a business plan gives new business owners an opportunity to define their goals and map out a strategy to reach them. A written document outlining the purpose and plans of your business will also boost your credibility with potential investors and employees. To get started, it can be helpful to review a few examples or even begin working off of a template.', 'In order to file federal taxes and open a business bank account, your LLC will need a federal employer identification number (EIN), which functions similarly to your personal Social Security number. Fortunately, obtaining an EIN is free and easy: You only have to fill out a form on the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) website.', 'The Idaho LLC formation process is relatively simple. Your Idaho limited liability company will be legally formed when you file a Certificate of Organization. You can find the form on the Idaho Secretary of State’s website. When you click on it, you will be prompted to create an account. Then, to fill out the form, you will need your LLC name, address of principal office, name and address of your registered agent, and names and addresses of governors. The filing fee is $100, plus $20 for processing.', 'If you run a foreign LLC (an LLC formed in another state), you can register to do business in Idaho by completing a Foreign Registration Statement. This is also subject to a $100 filing fee and a $20 processing fee. ', 'An LLC’s registered agent is the designated person or entity authorized to receive tax and legal documents for your business. Any person over the age of 18 with a street address in the state can be an Idaho registered agent, including yourself, but they have to be available to receive documents during regular business hours. If you don’t have a residence or office that fits that description, you may hire a registered agent service.', 'While no general state business license is needed in Idaho, you may need specific licenses or permits to do certain things. For example, if your LLC will manufacture, sell, house, distribute, or import alcoholic beverages, you will need a liquor license. To find out which business licenses apply to your LLC, fill out the Idaho Secretary of State’s Office Business Wizard and receive a checklist. In addition, check for any state and local license and permit requirements on your city clerk’s and county clerk’s websites.', 'One of the benefits of forming an LLC in Idaho is that you avoid corporate taxes and double taxation. LLCs, including S corporations, qualify as pass-through entities, so you will pay state taxes on your personal filings. However, you might be subject to other types of state taxes, including:', 'To pay these taxes and purchase or declare workers’ compensation insurance, you must register with the Idaho State Tax Commission. For more state tax resources, visit Idaho’s State & Federal Resources for Business website, which lists common business taxes and the agencies that assess them.', 'All LLCs, whether formed by one or multiple people, need an operating agreement to govern the business’s internal operations. While you are not required to file your Idaho LLC Operating Agreement with the state, you should keep a copy on hand. In the case that an LLC does not create an operating agreement, the business will legally be governed by the Idaho Uniform Limited Liability Company Act. When drafting your operating agreement, you may want to include:', 'Business insurance helps protect your LLC from lawsuits and financial risk. Understanding your insurance options and requirements is an important step in starting your business. Depending on how your LLC operates, you may need to purchase some type of insurance.', 'Between hiring employees or professional consultants (you may want to have a lawyer help you with your operating agreement) and securing office space and inventory, starting a business is expensive. ', 'It’s common for founders to use their own savings (or those of friends and family) when starting a business. Another option is crowdfunding; platforms like Kickstarter can be an effective way to raise money for startups, especially if you already have a following online. You will also likely want to search for investors, which can be private investors (like angel investors and venture capitalists), traditional small-business loans from a bank, or nontraditional small-business loans. Programs outside of the banking system can offer funding that is easier to obtain and allows for more flexibility in payment plans.', 'Get funding to run your business with Shopify Capital', 'Shopify Capital makes it easy to get funding quickly and use it for inventory, marketing, and more. Automatically make payments as a percentage of your daily sales. No compounding interest. No schedules. No surprises.', 'After jumping through all these legal hoops, it’s time to start reaching out to potential customers. A good small business marketing strategy can make or break your LLC. Here are four effective strategies to consider:', 'The Idaho LLC formation process requires a $100 filing fee and a $20 processing fee for a Certificate of Authorization.', 'Small business owners in Idaho enjoy low startup costs and relative freedom in the absence of more stringent rules, regulations, and taxes that exist in other states. On the other hand, Idaho has one of the lowest population densities in the country, meaning your local customer base may be smaller and less diverse than it would be in a more populated area.', 'Yes, Idaho requires LLCs to list a registered agent to receive legal and tax documents. To be an Idaho registered agent, you must be an adult with a street address in the state.', 'In Idaho, LLCs qualify as pass-through entities, so the business’s profits can be included in governors’ personal tax returns.', 'Keep up with the latest from Shopify', 'Get free ecommerce tips, inspiration, and resources delivered directly to your inbox.', 'By entering your email, you agree to receive marketing emails from Shopify.', 'popular posts', '100+ new features to grow your business', 'popular posts']
}