{
	link: 'https://www.shopify.com/blog/how-to-create-a-facebook-shop',
	title: 'How To Create a Facebook Shop in 6 Simple Steps',
	subtitles: ['What is Facebook Shops?', 'How to create a Facebook shop', 'How to manage your Facebook shop with an ecommerce platform', 'How to create a Facebook shop FAQ'],
	content: ['Facebook can be a great venue to sell your products online. Learn how to reach potential customers on the world’s most popular social media platform.', 'Build your', 'dream business.', 'Social commerce—which combines social media with ecommercefeatures—reaches potential customers where they’re most active. If your products are available only on your own site, you may be missing out.', 'Here’s how to start selling on Facebook Shops.', 'Facebook Shops is an online marketplace available through social media platform Facebook. It allows you to set up an online store on your Facebook page or Instagram profile. Think of Facebook Shops as both a sales channel and a social platform.', 'With Facebook Shops, users can find and buy your products from the Facebook app, where they see a personalized feed of brands and items they’re likely interested in. If you run an online store, opening a shop on Facebook can help your business reach more customers by placing your products in front of both your followers, and a broader audience.', 'To be eligible to have your products featured on Facebook Shops, your shop must sell physical items and meet Meta’s commerce eligibility requirements. This means you must do the following:', 'Here’s how to create a Facebook shop using the Facebook Commerce Manager, which allows you to manage and track your sales across Facebook and Instagram, including setting up online stores, managing inventory, and analyzing sales data.', '(If you use an ecommerce platform like Shopify, skip to the next section to learn how to set up automatic syncing between your Shopify store and Facebook shop.) ', 'If your business already has a Facebook page and online product catalog, ensure you have enabled “managepage” and “manage catalog” permissions for your business account. If your business does not have a Facebook page or catalog, you can set them up when you create your shop.', 'Go to the “Create your shop” page. You’ll need to log in with a Facebook account to access this page. If you use Shopify or another ecommerce platform that supports Facebook Shops, select “Sync a partner platform” to finish setup on the partner platform. If not, follow Facebook’s prompts to create your shop.', 'As of June 5, 2023, all new Facebook shops in the United States must use Checkout with Facebook, which allows customers to pay for purchases without leaving Facebook. (Existing US-based shops have until April 24, 2024, to enable Checkout with Facebook if they haven't already.)', 'To set up Checkout with Facebook, you need a US bank account, a US business address, a federal tax identification number, and individual identity information (such as a driver’s license or passport) to verify your business.', 'At this point, you can connect an existing Facebook page and business account to your Facebook shop, or create new ones.', 'Your catalog is essentially the container for information about products you advertise or sell. If you already have a product catalog on Facebook for advertising products, you can use it for your Facebook shop. If you don’t have a catalog, Facebook will automatically create an empty folder that you can add items to later.', 'Review your shop details, confirm everything is correct, and agree to Facebook’s seller agreement. You now have a Facebook shop that you can customize with your brand colors.', 'You can also add products to your catalog, choose which appear in your shop, and create collections to feature. When you’re ready, publish your shop. It will go live once Facebook has reviewed and approved it.', 'Many ecommerce platforms, including Shopify, integrate with Meta (Facebook’s parent company), allowing you to easily import and sync your product catalog. There are three main ways to do this:', 'If you use Shopify, you can easily create a Facebook shop. In the Shopify App Store, download the Facebook & Instagram app. From there, manageFacebook Shops orders directly from your Shopify admin account.', 'If you have an ecommerce site with a popular ecommerce platform and don’t yet have a Facebook shop, Facebook allows you to integrate your existing product catalog during setup.', 'On the create your shop page, select “Sync a partner platform” from the menu on the right-hand side. Facebook then redirects you to set up your shop through the partner ecommerce platform.', 'If you didn’t connect your ecommerce platform to your Facebook shop during setup, you can still do so. Connecting a partner ecommerce platform allows you to easily import an existing catalog.', 'Some of the ecommerce platforms that allow you to import products to Commerce Manager include those listed below. Follow these links to learn how to connect your shop to each platform:', 'Once you’ve connected your ecommerce platform account to your Facebook shop, you can manage your catalog directly from the partner platform. Changes will sync automatically with Facebook. To see the latest syncs, you can go to Commerce Manager > Catalog > Data sources.', 'Facebook recommends not changing your catalog directly in Commerce Manager once you’ve set up a partner integration.', 'If you use Shopify or another supported ecommerce platform, products from your ecommerce store will automatically sync with your Facebook shop. To add products manually, go to Facebook Commerce Manager > Catalog > Data Sources > Add Manually.', 'There is no cost to set up a Facebook shop. Meta charges a 5% fee per shipment. If you use Shopify Payments, you’ll be charged your usual fees from Shopify, not Meta.', 'Yes, you can sell on Facebook without a website. All you need to set up a Facebook shop is a Facebook business page. You can also sell through Facebook Marketplace and in Facebook groups.', 'Keep up with the latest from Shopify', 'Get free ecommerce tips, inspiration, and resources delivered directly to your inbox.', 'By entering your email, you agree to receive marketing emails from Shopify.', 'popular posts', '100+ new features to grow your business', 'popular posts']
}