{
	link: 'https://www.shopify.com/blog/how-to-start-a-subscription-business',
	title: 'Unlock Recurring Revenue with a Subscription Business Model',
	subtitles: ['What is a subscription business model? ', '🏁 How to start a business recommendations', 'Choosing the right subscription business model', 'Tips for making the subscription business model work for you', 'How to start your own subscription business', 'Subscription business model FAQ'],
	content: ['With a subscription business business model, companies can scale with predictable, recurring revenue. Meanwhile, shoppers receive a convenient, personalized, and lower-cost way to buy what they want and need on a recurring basis.', 'New to Shopify? Try it out.', 'For free.', 'Research shows that the subscription ecommerce market is projected to reach over $450 billion by 2025—which makes it a massively interesting opportunity for existing and aspiring business owners.', 'If you’re interested in adding subscription services to your Shopify store or starting a subscription ecommerce business from scratch, this is the right post for you. Below, learn about the benefits of recurring revenue, the various subscription business models, and how to get started on Shopify.', 'In a nutshell, subscription ecommerce businesses offer online shoppers a convenient, personalized, and lower-cost way to buy what they want and need on a recurring basis. This also turns one-time shoppers into repeat (and often lifelong) customers. And with predictable monthly recurring revenue (MRR) coming in, businesses can accurately forecast for future growth and scale.', 'Let’s unpack the benefits of a subscription business model: ', 'Knowing how much money is coming in every month helps you streamline everything from sales forecasting to inventory planning. It also means you know how much you can reinvest into the growth of your business.', 'Many subscription businesses ask for full payment upfront, at a discounted price. Besides being great for cash flow, this buffer can provide startups with much-needed peace of mind.', 'Businesses with a pay-per-product pricing model have to constantly invest in marketing and sales in order to attract new customers and thereby increase revenue. Increasing customer acquisition costs is a leading source of startup failure. With a subscription-based model, customers make payments to you on a regular basis, so you don’t have to invest as much in new customers to keep your business going.', 'Acquiring a new customer can cost 5–10 times more than retaining an existing customer.', 'The recurring nature of subscriptions creates a virtuous cycle: regular purchases offer deeper insights into your customers’ behavior, which allows you to continually improve the personalized experience you offer and, in turn, keeps customers coming back.', 'If done well, subscription businesses create extremely loyal, repeat customers—and repeat customers spend 67% more than new customers. This is the premise of customer lifetime value, and one of the most important factors in determining a business’ success.', 'With a subscription model, you’re uniquely positioned to make more revenue from existing customers. Because you have continuous contact with your customers, you’re building a trusting relationship with them. This makes it easier to market additional products or services to them, because they already know you provide a valuable service. ', 'Launching a subscription business can be extremely lucrative–if done right. The first step is choosing the subscription model that best suits your business.', 'There are three overarching types of subscriptions: curation, replenishment, and access. They all have their perks and drawbacks, so identifying the best fit for you will come down to the types of physical and digital products you’re selling, your capacity, and your unique business ideas and goals. ', 'This is the most common subscription business model, popularized by companies like Birchbox, Blue Apron, and Stitch Fix. These are your subscription box businesses, which seek to surprise and delight customers by providing them with new items and highly personalized experiences.', 'Typically, these businesses sell products in the apparel, beauty, and food categories, but the model works well across a wide range of products and is expanding into more industries every year. ', 'This model is all about convenience and cost savings. Replenishment subscriptions allow consumers to automate the purchase of essential items—often at a discount. ', 'Most products don’t need to be replenished regularly, so the types of products that you’re selling are an important consideration with this business model. Commodity and convenience items like razors, diapers, vitamins, and pet food are good fits for the replenishment model. ', 'Replenishment services have particularly high long-term subscription rates: 45% of members have subscribed for at least one year.', 'Fresh Patch delivers hydroponically grown grass patches to pet owners. With over 80% of total revenue attributed to subscriptions, recurring revenue is the backbone of the company’s business model. Fresh Patch', 'Access subscribers pay a monthly fee to obtain lower prices or members-only perks. JustFab, NatureBox, and Thrive Market are all examples of access subscription businesses, and their primary value is offering exclusivity to customers.', 'OK, this isn’t a business model, but it’s a hybrid approach that allows you to add subscription services to your existing business. More and more companies are shifting toward this revenue model, as it’s a flexible way of exploring the subscription ecosystem without committing to one revenue model (or pivoting your business).', 'Across the board, churn is the biggest risk for subscription businesses. The good news is that subscription consumers can be extremely sticky once they find a service they like. Here are some tips to curb churn rates and run a profitable subscription business: ', 'The first step in any business is evaluating your product/market fit and your product viability. In the subscription space particularly, some product categories are oversaturated, making it considerably more challenging to enter the market.', 'For example, the meal-kit category has extremely high rates of cancellation within the first six months, reflecting competitive pricing and broad similarities among the leading players. Do your research to ensure there’s a need for your product in the market and keep tabs on your competitors.', 'Is it a revenue number, customer acquisition, or number of units sold? Whatever your business goals are, you need to keep them top-of-mind—especially when choosing your business model. ', 'Many subscription consumers who churn do so quickly, so you shouldn’t over invest in free trials or heavy discounts unless they have a clear payback. Plus, pricing should always be tested, adapted, and evaluated as your company evolves.', 'For all the business models, but especially the curation model, customers expect personalized subscriptions to become even more tailored over time. 28% of curation subscribers said a personalized experience was the most important reason to continue to subscribe.', 'Do you have the in-house data expertise or technical stack to scale personalization efforts? If not, do you have the budget to invest in it?', 'In the early stages, you have to prioritize acquisition in order to get sales. But once you’ve got the ball rolling, it’s time to switch up tactics and focus on customer retention strategies.', 'Remember: It costs more to acquire a customer than it does to retain one, and you can always draw more value from a loyal customer base. Most subscription companies put all their efforts into acquiring new customers, but that’s not the most effective way to grow a business.', 'Subscription business models use different channels to attract new customers and engage with existing subscribers. If you’re just starting out, influencer marketing can help you gain social clout.', 'And since subscription-based businesses depend on a frequent and meaningful engagement of customers, email is a critical tool for all business models. Keep in mind that each subscription business model has its “marketing match." For example, for the curation model, affiliate marketing is the top acquisition channel. Recurring packages then offer a built-in marketing surface to engage with those customers.', 'It goes without saying that you should be monitoring and analyzing voluntary churn—customers cancelling their subscription—in order to continually improve your service. ', 'Expired, lost, or stolen credit cards; address changes; and network errors all contribute to involuntary churn over the course of a subscription customer’s lifecycle.', 'According to Profitwell, involuntary churn makes up 20–40% of overall churn, so actively staying on top of these common causes can make a big difference to your bottom line. ', 'Subscription business models can be added onto an existing business or used as the basis for a new business. If you’re interested in starting up your own subscription business, we have an easy five-step guide for you.', 'The first step is deciding what type of subscription model your business will use and what product(s) you’ll offer. ', 'If you currently have a successful clothing brand, adopting a subscription model can be a great way to bring in guaranteed revenue each month. On the other hand, you may simply have a great idea for a subscription box theme that you want to start from scratch.', 'Regardless, your first step needs to revolve around coming up with your subscription idea and outlining what this might look like in action.', 'One popular subscription business, FabFitFun, sends seasonal boxes with 6-8 full-size products that are perfect for each season—like beach-going goodies for summer and dry skin products for winter.', 'A few subscription business ideas include:', 'Pick the types of products you want your subscription business to offer each month. This is also the point where you may want to start reaching out to brands to create partnerships so that you can offer their products in your monthly subscription at a lower cost to your business. ', 'This is also the time to build a “prototype box” or sample subscription so that new subscribers can get an idea of the types of products they’ll be receiving each month. This doesn’t have to be completely accurate yet; just make sure the products you start lining up for marketing photos match the same types of products you’ll actually be sending.', 'Once you know what types of products you’ll be offering and how much your new subscription service will be able to purchase them for, you can start pricing out your subscription. Depending on your offerings, there may even be different subscription levels. ', 'For example, the Variety Fun snack subscription box has two different options: a “Regular Snacks” that’s cheaper and has more classic snacks and a “Healthy Snacks” that focuses on healthy snack options.', 'However, you might also offer different prices based on how far in advance your subscriber commits to. A one-year subscription would have a lower monthly cost than a month-to-month subscription.  ', 'You’ll need to price your subscription box at a point that is appealing to your target customer but also ensures your business makes a profit. It won’t be feasible for your business to spend $25/box while charging only $20/box.', 'Once you know what type of subscription you’ll be offering and how you’ll price it, it’s time to create your website. Here, you’ll share photos of sample products, allow customers to sign up for their next box, and share information about the products they receive each month.', 'And you can easily create your subscription business website with Shopify. Whether it’s adding an option for recurring orders to your existing business or creating subscription boxes from scratch, Shopify makes launching a subscription business easy. ', 'Boost recurring revenue with Shopify Subscriptions', 'Increase your customers’ lifetime value by offering subscriptions. Get started with the free Shopify Subscriptions app.', 'And since you can manage everything from our all-in-one platform, managing your subscription business is a piece of cake. When starting, there generally are two approaches: add a Shopify app to your store or build your own custom solution.', 'You can easily create a subscription offering by installing any of the following subscription management apps: ', 'For more options, check out Shopify’s subscription app collection to find an app that fits your business.', 'Using the Subscription APIs and tooling partners and developers can build new subscription experiences directly within Shopify Checkout ', 'The following resources are available to you today:', 'Now that your new subscription business is ready to sell, you have to put it in front of your target customers and start getting signups. Marketing any business is key to success, but it can seem daunting when faced with an empty slate.', 'A post shared by Birchbox US (@birchbox)', 'Here are a few key tips for marketing a brand new business:', 'While it may feel like things are going slowly at first, business growth is exponential. You just have to put in the effort and be patient while you grow your subscription business.', 'We’ve recently introduced APIs and tooling to enable partners and developers to build new subscription experiences directly within Shopify Checkout. For the first time, developers can now build on Shopify Checkout, meaning merchants no longer have to choose between selling subscription products and using Shopify’s checkout. ', 'Moving forward, you don’t have to manage multiple checkout experiences, and your customers can enjoy the same friction-free checkout experience, regardless of whether they’re purchasing a one-time or recurring product.', 'The following resources are available to you today:', 'This is the first step toward improving checkout extensibility so developers can help customize our checkout to meet more merchant needs. Visit our Partner Blog for more information about how to apply for access to the Subscriptions API.', 'Keep up with the latest from Shopify', 'Get free ecommerce tips, inspiration, and resources delivered directly to your inbox.', 'By entering your email, you agree to receive marketing emails from Shopify.', 'popular posts', '100+ new features to grow your business', 'popular posts']
}