{
	link: 'https://www.shopify.com/blog/3d-printer-business-ideas',
	title: '10 3D Printer Business Ideas for Aspiring Entrepreneurs',
	subtitles: ['What is 3D printing?', '3D printing business ideas', '3D printer business ideas FAQ'],
	content: ['3D printing technology can enable you to set up a variety of businesses, from jewelry design to robotics. Get inspired with 3D printer business ideas.', 'Build your', 'dream business.', 'In the early 1980s, automobile designer Hideo Kodama filed the first 3D printing patent for a rapid prototyping system that used UV light to harden materials into specific shapes. Since then, inventors, designers, and engineers have advanced 3D printing technology to make it more effective and commercially available.', 'Small business entrepreneurs in the 3D printing industry are entering a growing market; one study estimates that the global market for 3D printing products and services will reach more than $37 billion by 2026. If you’re interested in starting a new business venture using 3D printing technology, here are some ideas you can explore.', '3D printing is a form of additive manufacturing for creating physical objects from plastic, metal, nylon, and other materials. 3D printing machines use 3D models, advanced scanning technology, and computer-aided design to create highly complex structures.', '3D printers can cost anywhere from a few hundred to several thousand dollars, depending on the quality and type of printer. There are several different types of printers that use different processes. Here are a few of the most popular:', 'As 3D printing technology becomes increasingly accessible, many entrepreneurs are looking for 3D printing business ideas to capitalize on the demand for customized, on-demand manufacturing solutions.', 'Here are some 3D printing business ideas to consider for your own business venture: ', 'You can use 3D printers to create functional prototypes of products that you intend to manufacture to evaluate their structural and visual qualities before you spend a lot of money putting them into production. For example, on an episode of the Shopify Masters podcast, entrepreneur Alex Commons discusses how his company Bulat Kitchen used 3D printing technologies to create prototypes for the brand’s premium knives before manufacturing.', 'Graphic designers and sculptors can use 3D printers to create art pieces based on their original designs. 3D printing allows artists to create intricate works that might otherwise take a lot of manual effort and time. You can showcase 3D printed art on various online art galleries like Artsy, sell your art on marketplaces like Etsy, or set up your own ecommerce store on Shopify.', 'You might explore another business idea centered on custom manufacturing tailored to individual customers. Leveraging 3D printing technology, you have the capability to offer customized product versions aligned with your customer’s specific preferences.', 'For example, you could use 3D printers to produce and sell customized glasses frames or customized earbuds designed to fit the shape of a specific customer’s face or ears. 3D printing is also being used by the medical industry for products like customized prosthetics.', 'Fashion designers can produce shoes using 3D printing tools. Fashion companies can also use 3D printing to create items with more sustainable materials than traditional manufacturing processes, which often rely on resource-intensive materials. For example, shoe company Rothy’s uses innovative 3D knitting technology to create comfortable, washable, and eco-friendly shoes made from innovative materials including recycled plastic.', 'Consider launching a customized collectibles business that uses 3D printing technology to create one-of-a-kind gifts. Popular products include custom miniatures and figurines (perhaps of customers’ friends, family, and pets).', 'To launch your own 3D printing collectibles business, find a particular niche to make your mark in and identify potential customers who are willing to pay for your items.', 'If you have a passion for jewelry making, you can use metals, waxes, and other materials to 3D print necklaces, bracelets, earrings, and rings. Jewelry designers can also create personalized designs for customers.', 'Another 3D printing business idea is to use 3D printers to create detailed models for real estate developments. 3D printers give architects and contractors the power to achieve custom shapes that accurately represent potential construction concepts.', 'You can use additive manufacturing tools to 3D print spare parts for existing products. For example, you could 3D print missing parts for instruments, toys, or household appliances. You can also use 3D printing to modify existing products—for example, by printing ergonomic phone cases.', 'Consider offering classes to hobbyists and local businesses that want to learn how to use 3D printers. If you have a reliable 3D printer and a passion for the process, offer classes where you teach clients how to use the technology.', 'Entrepreneurs can use 3D printers to develop customized robotic solutions for various fields, including manufacturing, health care, and construction. According to some estimates, the global market size for robotics technology will exceed $200 billion by 2030, meaning there’s growing interest in developing robotic solutions. Robotics engineering companies can use 3D printing technology to manufacture robot parts that require shapes with complex geometries.', 'You can use your 3D printer to start a profitable business in several ways, including selling 3D-printed art, jewelry, and collectible items. To start your own 3D printing business, conduct market research, develop a business plan, choose a 3D printing technology, and sell your 3D printed items through a reliable ecommerce platform like Shopify.', 'Businesses can use 3D printing to create profitable businesses selling art, jewelry, collectibles, or custom accessories. The key to success is finding a niche in the market and potential customers who are willing to pay for your pieces.', 'Yes, with good design skills and some 3D printing experience, you can print any custom shape from a wide range of materials to sell in person or online. It’s best to create your own unique designs and not replicate existing goods, which might cause copyright issues.', 'Entrepreneurs can explore 3D printing business ideas for a wide range of industries, including retail, manufacturing, aerospace, health care, construction, and robotics.', 'Keep up with the latest from Shopify', 'Get free ecommerce tips, inspiration, and resources delivered directly to your inbox.', 'By entering your email, you agree to receive marketing emails from Shopify.', 'popular posts', '100+ new features to grow your business', 'popular posts']
}