{
	link: 'https://www.shopify.com/blog/business-owners-policy',
	title: 'Business Owner’s Policy: How BOP Insurance Works',
	subtitles: ['What is a business owner’s policy (BOP)?', 'What does a business owner’s policy typically cover? ', 'How does a BOP work?', 'Which businesses should obtain a BOP?', 'How to obtain a BOP', 'Business owner’s policy FAQ'],
	content: ['A business owner’s insurance policy can cover property damage, business income interruption, and liability claims.', 'Start your online business today.', 'For free.', 'Prepackaged first aid kits are popular for a reason. They typically cost less than homemade versions, require no assembly, and eliminate the labor of deciding what to include.', 'Think of a business owner’s policy as the ready-made first aid kit of the business insurance world. These insurance packages are specifically designed for owners of small and mid-size businesses and typically are offered at a reduced rate. Learn more about these policies and whether they might be right for your business.', 'A business owner’s policy (BOP) is a type of small business insurance that bundles multiple types of coverage into a single insurance package. These packages often offer coverage at a lower rate than if you purchased the policies separately. Business owner’s policies generally are available only to small and mid-size businesses in lower-risk industries, such as food service, retail, and manufacturing.', 'Think of a business owner’s policy as an all-in-one—or most-in-one—defense against common lawsuits and property damage. Policies differ across providers, with different insurance companies offering different coverage limits, exclusions, and rates. The specifics vary based on your company’s needs and the insurance company’s offerings, but most business owner’s insurance policies include:', 'Many insurance providers also offer policy add-ons, a common method for customizing a business owner’s policy to meet your business’s specific needs. Here are a few policies you can include in your BOP, or that may already be included in your policy:', 'Take note that different insurance providers set different parameters around policy add-ons. For example, while some small business insurance companies offer workers’ compensation insurance as an add-on to a BOP, other providers require a separate policy for this coverage.', 'Not all businesses are eligible for BOP insurance.', '“A business owner’s policy is for smaller companies, typically with fewer than 100 employees, a small workplace, and $1 million to $2 million in annual revenue,” says Lynne McChristian, senior instructor of finance at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign and director of the Office of Risk Management and Insurance Research.', 'Small businesses that qualify for a business owner’s policy usually operate in lower-risk industries, have a brick-and-mortar location, and require less than one year of business interruption insurance.', 'A BOP may be a good fit if you work from an office or sell products from a storefront, but remember that it may not be the only insurance policy you need (since policy add-ons may need to fill any gaps in coverage). For example, if you have vehicles, you need to purchase ​​commercial auto insurance separately. If you have employees, you still need workers’ compensation insurance. A BOP isn’t necessarily a one-stop insurance solution.', 'BOP insurance packages are tailored to the needs of small and mid-size business owners. Many small businesses can benefit from coverage, including:', 'For businesses that require a smaller scope of coverage—for example, a remote consulting business that operates with few tangible assets—a BOP may or may not offer a better value than separately purchasing coverages. Obtaining multiple quote types can help you identify the insurance package that best fits your needs.', 'Although BOPs are insurance packages, finding a suitable BOP for your business involves the same steps as purchasing an individual insurance policy. To obtain BOP insurance, assemble basic information about your business (such as your annual revenue and number of employees). Then contact an insurance broker or insurance company, or consult an online insurance marketplace to determine eligibility and assemble a quote.', 'To identify the best package, many business owners solicit quotes from multiple insurance companies and compare coverage types, insurance rates, and policy add-on options.', 'Although coverage specifics vary by policy, a business owner’s policy typically covers property damage, liability for personal injury, and loss of business income due to an accident or natural disaster.', 'Business owner’s policies do not typically cover commercial auto insurance, health insurance, disability insurance, workers’ compensation insurance,professional services insurance, or professional liability insurance. In most cases, these types of business insurance must be purchased separately or as policy add-ons.', 'A business owner’s policy typically covers general liability claims (such as claims related to harm a business does to a non-employee), property damage (including commercial property, equipment, and inventory), and loss of business income due to an accident or natural disaster.', 'Keep up with the latest from Shopify', 'Get free ecommerce tips, inspiration, and resources delivered directly to your inbox.', 'By entering your email, you agree to receive marketing emails from Shopify.', 'popular posts', '100+ new features to grow your business', 'popular posts']
}