{
	link: 'https://www.shopify.com/blog/wholesale-suppliers',
	title: 'How To Find Wholesale Suppliers (2024)',
	subtitles: ['What is a wholesale supplier?', 'How to find a reputable wholesale supplier', 'Other considerations for finding suitable wholesale suppliers', 'Unconventional ways to find wholesale suppliers', 'What to ask when contacting a potential wholesale supplier', 'Popular wholesale products', 'Find the best wholesale suppliers for your business today', 'Wholesale suppliers FAQ'],
	content: ['Finding a reliable wholesale supplier is essential. A trustworthy partner fulfills quality orders on time—and can be the difference between success and failure.', 'Build your', 'dream business.', 'Wholesale trade is worth about $670 billion dollars annually in the United States alone, and the industry has grown by more than 38% since 2020.', 'Those are hard numbers for sellers to ignore, which is why more of them, especially dropshippers, are scrambling for a piece of the wholesale ecommerce pie.', 'Still, you can’t sell a product you don’t have. The biggest challenge in sourcing products is finding a supplier you can trust. With scores of wholesale options all around the world, finding the best supplier for your online business can feel overwhelming.', 'But it doesn’t need to. With Shopify Collective, you can discover high-quality products from Shopify brands to sell through your online store. Another option is a marketplace like Faire, which offers products from thousands of independent brands.', 'If you’re already on Shopify, you can use the Faire: Buy Wholesale product sourcing app to buy wholesale products and sync them to your store. If you want to sell wholesale, you can try the Faire: Sell Wholesale app to gain exposure to independent retailers globally.', 'Ahead, learn how wholesale buying works, explore additional options, and learn how to find the perfect wholesale or dropshipping suppliers for your needs.', 'Table of contents', 'A wholesale supplier is a business that buys goods directly from the manufacturer and sells them to brick-and-mortar or online retailers for a profit. The wholesale model soared in popularity with the onset of mass production and marketing techniques in the 19th century.', 'Without wholesalers, manufacturers would have to market goods to retailers on their own. Instead, wholesale vendors act as middlemen in the supply chain.', 'They buy from manufacturers in such large quantities they get a significant discount, which they can then pass on to retailers. They normally have a product license and, as such, their products are not available to regular customers—or at least not at the same price points they offer to retail partners.', 'Retailers then repackage the wholesale products for individual sale at a profit. Price is always negotiable, but dropshippers and other retailers typically pay wholesalers 60% to 70% of what they charge consumers.', 'Connect with manufacturers', 'Find the perfect production partner to build inventory for your ecommerce store with our free sourcing and manufacturing outreach template.', 'Learn more', 'With so many options, finding the best suppliers for your business can be daunting. Here are a few things to bear in mind:', 'Another concern for merchants is how to find suppliers who can handle a quick turnaround. Meeting this window is crucial, as consumers expect products to arrive within three business days.', 'So how do you find legitimate, quality wholesale suppliers? The following are all wholesale supplier marketplaces you can order products from.', 'If your online business curates a wide variety of products or is competing on price, consider working with some of the following wholesalers.', '', 'The Ali family of websites is China’s most dominant online marketplace, comparable to Amazon in the US. Research shows it has a 63% share of the domestic (Chinese) ecommerce market. Alibaba is a wholesale supplier directory aimed at a B2B audience, while AliExpress is a B2C experience.', 'If you’re looking to conduct a limited trial run, AliExpress might be a wise choice before going all-in on wholesale with Alibaba. The Ali family of websites is ideal for:', 'One of the best things about working with suppliers based in China is ePacket delivery, which makes shipping much faster and more affordable than it used to be. This is because in 2011, the US Postal Service made ePacket delivery eligible for First Class service and delivery confirmation.', '', 'DHgate is another wholesale supplier based in China. DHgate has lower prices on a lot of wholesale products, but is known for carrying a lot of replica goods. If that’s not an issue for your business, it’s worth digging through deals to see what you can unearth.', 'DHgate is best for:', 'Sometimes it’s best to pick a wholesale supplier based on geography. Fast delivery is increasingly a priority for modern consumers. If you’re in North America or Europe, then these are the wholesalers you should know about.', '', 'EK Wholesale is based in Scotland and has been around for more than 30 years, making it one of the leading wholesale suppliers for merchants who do business in Europe. EK is known for carrying high-quality products, and offers free delivery to the UK mainland on orders of £250 or more. Other benefits include:', 'If most of your customers are based in the EU or your business specializes in the fashion niche, then working with EK Wholesale might be the best option for you.', '', 'Faire is ideal for merchants based in North America. It has a wide variety of suppliers based on the continent—and a wide variety of goods, including beauty, kitchen, pets, and bags.', 'Faire is also good for dropshippers looking to save on shipping costs. The free shipping bonus could really make a difference to your business, especially if you’re new to the world of dropshipping.', 'If you already know what you’re doing when it comes to dropshipping, take a look at some of the following options. Experienced dropshippers who are comfortable navigating clunky websites, or those with a very specific niche, are sure to find some great price points.', '', 'Wholesale Central has more than 1,400 suppliers, more than 700,000 products, and requires no membership fees. Its website isn’t flashy, but if you know what you’re looking for and have some experience wholesaling, this can be a solid option.', 'If you’re eager to get started on your dropshipping journey, not having a registration waiting period makes Wholesale Central a solid option.', '', 'IndiaMart’s range of suppliers is staggering—it stocks the usual consumer goods, plus a few specific industries. Depending on the wholesale product you’re pursuing, this could be your best choice. Here’s why:', 'IndiaMart’s strength lies in its niches. Few wholesale vendors have contact with the industries that IndiaMart does.', 'If you have the patience to dig through the options we’ve laid out, you’re bound to find suppliers that suit your business. Just make sure to avoid some of the common pitfalls:', 'If you’re just starting your dropshipping journey and need a little extra help, consider a dropshipping app. An app syncs with your Shopify account, meaning you can add products directly to your online store. Dropshipping avoids the stress of packaging, shipping, and managing inventory.', 'For businesses that wholesale products, the goal is to select and curate the best wholesale products for customers, while handling all the marketing and customer service.', 'But those products have to come from somewhere. Otherwise, you’d have to develop your own products and supply chain. That’s where wholesale suppliers come in. There are many advantages to working with wholesalers:', 'Dropshipping is a fulfillment method where an online store doesn’t keep the products it sells in stock. Instead, the store will purchase products from a third-party supplier and have them shipped directly to the customer. As a result, the seller never handles the products directly.', 'Think of it as wholesale purchasing meets third-party fulfillment (as opposed to regular retailers who buy wholesale—or develop and manufacture their own products—and handle fulfillment on their own).', 'Learn more: 150+ Dropshipping Products to Sell for Profit', 'Using wholesale supplier marketplaces is the simplest way to connect with a wholesale supplier in 2023, but it’s not the only way.', 'Those willing to stray from the beaten path just might find a great deal lurking around the corner. Other options for finding reliable and trustworthy suppliers include:', 'Those willing to meet and greet a wholesaler live may find a solution that’s ideal for their unique business needs. Some people work better in person, and building a business relationship face to face can lead to increased trust and cheaper prices for wholesale purchases down the line.', 'Once you’ve found your ideal wholesale supplier, it’s time to reach out and take the next steps.', 'Before you pick up the phone, ensure you have the necessary business license and tax documents on hand. You won’t be able to place an order at some companies—or even get their attention—without this information.', 'Rules for dealing with certified wholesalers vary from state to state. (Do your research.) Wholesale suppliers often have a special product license, meaning they legally cannot do business with consumers, only other businesses.', 'When you do call, here are key questions to ask:', 'Ask clear, direct questions that will help you find answers to your most important questions.', '“I’m thinking of maybe starting a dropshipping business sometime soon” is the type of vague email that a busy wholesaler might just ignore. But straightforward questions that show you mean business—such as, “What’s your best price for 250 units per month?”—are more likely to get a reply.', 'And remember—oftentimes, you can negotiate with wholesale suppliers. Don’t be afraid to push back if the numbers they’re quoting won’t work for your margins.', 'You’ve done all the homework and are almost ready to come to an agreement with your wholesale supplier. But before you sign that contract, here are a few more things to check:', 'Next, here are some special considerations for popular products available to wholesale, along with some things you’ll need to keep your eye on before placing a large order.', 'When selecting among top wholesale suppliers, it’s important to consider what kinds of products you’re selling. While two suppliers may be roughly the same for general merchandise, one may be the ideal supplier for a specific niche. Here are some tips for specific wholesale items and industries.', 'When you’re looking for the right wholesale watch or jewelry supplier, make sure the wholesaler mentions the following key information. If they don’t, you might want to keep looking for another supplier.', 'Fashion is highly popular among dropshippers, and the possibilities are constantly changing in line with the latest trends. A couple things that can make or break a fashion wholesaler are:', 'Learn more: Print on Demand: A Low-Risk Way to Sell Custom T-Shirts, Books, and More', 'Selling coffee online has an easy entry point, with its own considerations:', 'Sourcing a supplier feels like a roadblock: You can’t open an online store until you have something to sell. But it’s never been easier to find a reliable wholesaler of quality products (who also delivers on time).', 'Find a well-reviewed wholesaler who’s familiar with your niche, get a few samples, negotiate a price, and open that online store.', 'Keep up with the latest from Shopify', 'Get free ecommerce tips, inspiration, and resources delivered directly to your inbox.', 'By entering your email, you agree to receive marketing emails from Shopify.', 'popular posts', '100+ new features to grow your business', 'popular posts']
}