{
	link: 'https://www.shopify.com/blog/llc-names',
	title: 'How To Choose an LLC Name For Your Business in 2024',
	subtitles: ['What is an LLC name?', 'How to create an LLC name: 8 tips', '75 AI-generated LLC names', 'LLC vs. DBA: when to use a fictitious name', 'When to consider a trademark', 'What happens if your LLC name is taken?', 'The final word', 'LLC names FAQ'],
	content: ['Choosing the right LLC name can be crucial to your business. Explore this guide for tips on selecting a business name that’s unique, memorable—and legal.', 'Start your online business today.', 'For free.', 'Choosing a name for your limited liability company (LLC) is one of the fun parts of starting a business. You might already have an LLC name in mind, or you could be brainstorming a few options.', 'Your LLC name influences a customer’s first impression of your brand and sets you apart from the competition. It also protects your business at the state and federal levels. Registering your name ensures that your business name is unique and can’t be used by any other company.', 'In this guide, learn about the importance of an LLC name, how to create one, and when to consider trademarking your LLC name. You’ll also see 75 AI-generated LLC names to help you create a memorable, legal name for your business.', 'An LLC name is the legal business name under which a limited liability company operates—and an integral part of your brand’s identity. It’s how customers recognize your business, and distinguishes you from other companies.', 'When you start an LLC, the name you choose can’t include anything that falsely represents your business. For example, you can’t imply that your LLC is a corporation.', 'Your LLC’s legal name also must be approved by your state. Check your state agency’s website for local LLC naming requirements.', 'Typically, your business’s name must end with the words “Limited Liability Company” or an accepted abbreviation, such as:', 'Find the perfect business name', 'Struggling to come up with a unique LLC name? Use Shopify’s business name generator to help you choose a unique name in seconds.', 'A unique, memorable name can make your LLC stand out and help customers find your products or services. Here are a few things to keep in mind when creating a name for your LLC:', 'Legally, the name of your LLC can’t be the same as another business entity registered in your state, or the same as a trademarked phrase.', 'State databases can tell you whether an LLC name is available in your state, but not whether the name is trademarked. To see if your desired business name is still up for grabs, conduct an LLC name search via your local Secretary of State office, and then do a trademark search at the United States Patent and Trademark Office site.', 'Even if the name is available in your state, you might not want to use it if it’s too similar to a trade name used elsewhere. For example, if you’re starting a coffee roasting company in New York and want to name it Coffee Plan, a quick Google search will show that customers might confuse you with Coffee Project, a popular NYC café.', 'A memorable LLC name leaves a lasting impression on potential customers. Your name doesn’t necessarily need to be quirky or funny, but it should be easy to remember.', 'If you were looking for a new place to exercise, which company name would be more likely to stick in your mind: Planet Fitness or Gym Services LLC?', 'Consider using techniques like alliteration and rhyme. For instance, Coca-Cola is a globally recognized brand that uses alliteration, while lululemon athletica combines alliteration with unique word choice to create a catchy name.', 'Another way to make your business name more recognizable is to reference nature, literature, or historical events. For example, the name of outdoor apparel retailer Eagle Creek creates a mental image that aligns with outdoor adventure. Similarly, Warby Parker, a popular eyewear company, took its name from two characters in Jack Kerouac’s unpublished journals, creating a relevant literary connection.', 'Combining two or more existing words to form a unique LLC name can help convey your business’s mission. For example, Snapchat combines “snap” and “chat” to describe the app’s function of sending quick photo messages.', 'Similarly, the certification organization Fairtrade combines “fair” and “trade” to convey its mission of promoting equitable working conditions.', 'LifeLock, an identity-theft protection company, combines two concepts that evoke a sense of complete security.', 'An aspirational name can reflect the goals, dreams, or values that your business aims to fulfill. It’s an easy way to align yourself with your target audience on an emotional level.', 'For example, multinational supermarket Whole Foods has an aspirational name that reflects its commitment to wholesome, healthy produce—reassuring customers that the business shares its priorities.', 'Video game and software company Epic Games chose an aspirational name that does two things. First, the word “epic” promises customers an awesome gaming experience that surpasses expectations. Second, when founder Tim Sweeney picked the name, it represented a vision for the company’s future that made the team seem larger and more established than it actually was. ', 'Using a metaphor in your LLC name can communicate your business’s unique perspective on your industry. Metaphors can also convey complex ideas in a simple and intuitive way, making your brand more accessible to a wider audience.', 'Meal subscription service Blue Apron was named after the aprons chefs wear while learning to cook, suggesting that its product is restaurant quality, yet easy enough for beginners to use.', 'Tech company Research in Motion decided to use a metaphor when naming its line of mobile phones. It chose BlackBerry, after their devices’ dark casing and berry-like shape. It’s a name that proved so popular, RIM later adopted it as its company name.', 'Misleading names can harm your brand’s reputation and potentially lead to legal issues. Plus, some words cannot legally be used in your business entity name.', 'While rules vary by state, terms that indicate an entity type different from an LLC generally are not allowed. These include “corporation” and “Inc.,” as well as “limited partnership.”', 'Your LLC name must not include words that indicate your company is a governmental organization such as “city,” or a bank, like “insurance company” or “trust.”', 'Other misleading professional terms like “legal” and “medical” are against the rules, for obvious reasons, unless you have the necessary licenses.', 'One common way to make your business name more descriptive is to add a commonly accepted identifier, such as:', 'Your website’s domain name is more than just an online address. It’s a key part of your brand identity and can impact your business’s visibility on search engines.', 'A domain name containing words related to your industry signals to search engines like Google what your website is about and helps customers discover you online. So, depending on how reliant your business will be on organic search traffic, it may make more sense to start by finding the right domain name, then choose an LLC name that matches.', 'Find your domain name', 'Use Shopify’s domain name tool to explore potential domain names for your business website.', 'It’s important to think about the future when naming your LLC. Choose a name that reflects what you’re offering now, but isn’t so specific that it limits your growth potential.', 'For instance, if you’re a solo entrepreneur forming a single-member LLC, using your personal name might seem like a good idea. However, as your business grows and you add staff, a name like “Erika Jones Coaching LLC” could confuse clients who expect to interact only with you.', 'Similarly, if you’re selling a product, consider keeping your LLC name general—rather than tied to a specific item.', 'Imagine you’re starting a craft beer company, and you decide to name your LLC Hop Haven Craft Beers Ltd. While the name appeals to your target audience, it could cause confusion in the future if you decide to expand your product line with other types of beverages. Better to stick with Hop Haven Ltd. and keep things flexible.', 'Choosing the perfect LLC name can be a daunting task. To help you get started, here’s a list of 75 AI-generated LLC names inspired by the tips in this article.', 'Remember to check your state’s database and perform thorough research before deciding on a name for your business.', 'If you’re still struggling to come up with a unique LLC name, try Shopify’s business name generator.', 'Limited Liability Companies and doing business as (DBA) represent two different ways of legally identifying your business.', 'An LLC is a formal business structure that provides its owners with limited liability protection. This means that the owners are not personally responsible for the company’s debts and liabilities. When you register an LLC name with your Secretary of State, it becomes the legal name of your business.', 'On the other hand, a DBA, also known as a fictitious name, trade name, or assumed name, is simply an alias that a business can operate under. It’s a way for a business owner to conduct business under a name different from their personal name or the legal name of their business.', 'Which type of business structure should you use? If your business is already registered as an LLC, a DBA allows you to retain the legal protections that come with an LLC, but adjust your name to stay relevant or reach new customers.', 'This could be the case if your LLC name is generic, such as “AAA Building.” In this case, you may decide that your marketing will be more successful when using a DBA name, like The Construction Brothers.', 'Perhaps your product line has changed dramatically since your company was formed. A DBA could help keep your business name on brand.', 'If your state requires you to identify your limited liability company status on marketing materials, a DBA allows you to drop clunky acronyms like “LLC” and “Ltd.”', 'While your business entity name protects you at the state level, trademarks protect you at the national level. ', 'A trademark protects a name, logo, or slogan that distinguishes your goods or services. As a business owner, you should consider registering a trademark for your LLC name if it plays a significant role in your branding and you want exclusive rights to use that name nationwide.', 'Alternatively, if you’re a small service business—say, a painting company whose customers are mostly local—trademarking is likely unnecessary.', 'Registering a trademark with the United States Patent and Trademark Office prevents other businesses from using a name that is confusingly similar to yours. It’s an important step in safeguarding your brand identity and reputation.', 'Your chosen LLC name must be unique and not in use by another registered business in your state. This is a requirement set by the Secretary of State to avoid confusion among consumers.', 'If you find that your desired LLC name is already in use, don’t panic. Try brainstorming variations of your original LLC name. This could involve adding or changing a word, or using abbreviations or different spellings. Remember, the new name can’t be too similar to the original.', 'If your alternative LLC name is available, you typically can reserve it for a certain period while you prepare your LLC formation documents. This prevents other businesses from registering the name while you’re in the process of setting up your LLC.', 'After you’ve secured a new name, you’ll need to update your LLC formation documents and inform any relevant parties of your name change. This includes your bank, the IRS, vendors, and customers.', 'Choosing the perfect name for your business is no small feat. It’s a decision that will impact your brand’s identity and set the stage for interactions with your customers. The right LLC name embodies your mission and values, and the unique offering of your business.', 'See our state-specific LLC guides:', 'Keep up with the latest from Shopify', 'Get free ecommerce tips, inspiration, and resources delivered directly to your inbox.', 'By entering your email, you agree to receive marketing emails from Shopify.', 'popular posts', '100+ new features to grow your business', 'popular posts']
}