HOME

Original page: https://www.optimonk.com/the-farmers-dog-marketing-strategy/
-------------------

THE FARMER’S DOG MARKETING STRATEGY: 6 TACTICS THAT YOU CAN APPLY IN
YOUR OWN BUSINESS
 The Farmer’s Dog Marketing Strategy: 6 Tactics That You Can Apply in Your Own
Business  The Farmer’s Dog Marketing Strategy: 6 Tactics That You
Can Apply in Your Own Business  
  The Farmer’s Dog Marketing Strategy: 6 Tactics That You Can Apply
in Your Own Business  The Farmer’s Dog Marketing Strategy: 6 Tactics
That You Can Apply in Your Own Business  
Founded in 2014 by two dog lovers, The Farmer’s Dog is a DTC brand
that aims to overturn the dog food industry. The founders were _“fed
up with highly-processed, burnt brown balls being marketed as
“natural,” _so they created their own category of dog food that
was very different from what had been available up until that point. 
The website operates as a subscription service, sending freshly-made
dog food directly to customers’ doors. They have several varieties
of food available, and use a survey to help their users decide which
type to get and what portion sizes each individual dog needs. 
The Farmer’s Dog is now delivering millions of meals monthly, with
total funding of over $100M. 
Their search growth shows the rate and consistency with which the
brand has grown in recent years: 669% since 2018. 
  The Farmer’s Dog search volume from 2018 to present  The
Farmer’s Dog search volume from 2018 to present  
_Image source_
Clearly, they’re doing something right! That’s why we analyzed the
brand’s unique marketing strategy and collected all the most
important lessons from The Farmer’s Dog for this breakdown.
Ready to learn 6 tested marketing tactics that you can apply in your
own business?
Let’s get started!
SHORTCUTS ✂️
     Make personalization an integral part of your business
     Save site abandoners by addressing their concerns
     Offer a trial discount for new customers
     Use the power of word-of-mouth marketing
     Generate demand with content marketing
     Use social ads to reach your target market
1. MAKE PERSONALIZATION AN INTEGRAL PART OF YOUR BUSINESS
Today’s online shoppers expect a seamless customer journey that
helps them find and buy what they want quickly and efficiently.
That’s why more and more brands are building customer experiences
centered around personalization.
The Farmer’s Dog is one of them.
In fact, Brett Podolsky, co-founder of The Farmer’s Dog said in an
interview that “personalization was fundamental to who we are as a
brand.”
A crucial step of their sales funnel is a quiz that helps shoppers
find the ideal meal for their dog. It doesn’t just determine which
type of food is best based on the unique needs and health issues of
each shopper’s dog, it also advises shoppers about the appropriate
portion size for their dog.
This quiz works well because although dog owners care deeply about
their pets, they might lack the knowledge about what types of natural
dog foods are best. After all, making the switch from commercial dog
food can be complicated, and the right diet for each dog depends on
age, breed, and many other factors. People really appreciate the
personalized recommendations provided by The Farmer’s Dog.
Let’s take a look at how their quiz works.
  The start of the Farmer’s Dog quiz  The start of the Farmer’s
Dog quiz  
They ask lots of questions about your dog, including their breed,
personality, weight, daily activity, what they like to eat, and if
they have any health issues.
  The Farmer’s Dog quiz  The Farmer’s Dog quiz  
Based on your answers, you’ll get a customized meal plan with the
perfect recipes for your dog. Notice how they use your dog’s name in
the copy—and squeeze in 2 reminders about the special 20% off offer.
  The results of the Farmer’s Dog quiz  The results of the
Farmer’s Dog quiz  
The Farmer’s Dog also customizes the package you receive by adding
the name of your dog to the label and precisely portioning each pack
of food for the size of your dog.
2. SAVE SITE ABANDONERS BY ADDRESSING THEIR CONCERNS
In general, visitors who have spent significant amounts of time on
your site are very interested in your brand and products, even if they
haven’t decided to make a purchase yet. That’s especially true if
they’ve started to fill out a quiz. 
In The Farmer’s Dog’s case, a visitor who’s reached this stage
of the customer journey has a dog and is probably interested in
starting to feed them healthier meal options. 
If someone who fits this profile plans to leave the site without
finishing their purchase (or completing the quiz), The Farmer’s Dog
tries to rescue that conversion. 
Unlike most ecommerce companies, they don’t go about this by
doubling down on trying to sell the visitor a product before they’re
ready. Instead, they just offer help. 
Here’s what their exit-intent popup looks like:
  The Farmer’s Dog exit-intent popup  The Farmer’s Dog exit-intent
popup  
For example, if you click on “I want to see the price,” this is
what you’ll see: 
  The Farmer’s Dog exit-intent popup second page  The Farmer’s Dog
exit-intent popup second page  
But if you click on “I want to see the recipes” instead, you’ll
see this: 
  The Farmer’s Dog exit-intent popup second page  The Farmer’s Dog
exit-intent popup second page  
These popups accomplish a few important things at once:
     They address visitors’ concerns and answer common questions.
     They encourage visitors to complete the quiz. 
     They help collect valuable feedback for the brand.
Pretty smart, right?
OptiMonk has several ready-made popup templates that are tailor-made
for collecting feedback like this. Here are some examples:
The Farmer’s Dog takes a different approach with customers who
finish the quiz but don’t make a purchase. 
They send this segment of visitors an automated email that offers 50%
off the first purchase. This is a larger discount than the 20% off
they offer on the website, meaning that it might sway some people who
were on the fence at the previous price point.
  The Farmer’s Dog follow-up email  The Farmer’s Dog follow-up
email  
Notice how they use the information they’ve collected to personalize
the follow-up email. 
3. OFFER A TRIAL DISCOUNT FOR NEW CUSTOMERS
Offering a trial discount is especially important for ecommerce
businesses that use a subscription model because customers aren’t
just making a one-off purchase, they’re committing to paying for
something every month. This means it can be more difficult to get
people to take the leap and sign up.
The Farmer’s Dog offers a trial discount for new customers: 20% off
the first purchase. 
The purpose of this discount is to help new customers decide if the
meals are really what they expect (and see whether their dog truly
loves them).
Offering a discount on the first purchase is a great way to decrease
customers’ fear because they can try your product for less. And once
they know what they can expect from you, they’re usually happy to
pay full price. 
According to Jonathan Regev, CEO of The Farmer’s Dog, offering a
trial discount is a way of expressing confidence in their product,
which potential customers pick up on. 
In his words, “that trial essentially says, ’Hey, we stand behind
our product. You can try it.’ So, most people aren’t looking at
the trial like, ‘Oh, I’ll just get this because it’s on sale.’
It’s more like, ‘I wonder if this company really does what they
say they do.’” 
  A sticky banner on The Farmer’s Dog website that promotes their
20% off discount  A sticky banner on The Farmer’s Dog website that
promotes their 20% off discount  
4. USE THE POWER OF WORD-OF-MOUTH MARKETING
Word-of-mouth is a really important channel for any ecommerce
business. People trust companies that are referred by others they
trust, whether that’s a friend or an influencer.
It’s important that these referrals are based on real experiences
with the brand. 
“When you see tangible benefits and an impact, you end up talking to
your friends about it. And that’s something we’re always focused
on,” said Regev. 
Word-of-mouth marketing starts with creating an outstanding product
that satisfies your customers and ensuring that you provide a flawless
customer experience. 
It’s clear that The Farmer’s Dog’s customers love talking about
the brand. The social proof on their website proves this.
  Social proof on The Farmer’s Dog website  Social proof on The
Farmer’s Dog website  
  Social proof on The Farmer’s Dog website  Social proof on The
Farmer’s Dog website  
They even feature testimonials from veterinarians. The company has
been working with vets from the start, ensuring they could create
healthy products and also have qualified experts to recommend their
products. 
  Veterinarian testimonials on The Farmer’s Dog
website  Veterinarian testimonials on The Farmer’s Dog website  
They’re also often featured in magazines and big media outlets,
which they highlight on their site.
  Media coverage on The Farmer’s Dog website  Media coverage on The
Farmer’s Dog website  
An affiliate program is another great way to increase word-of-mouth on
social media. The Farmer’s Dog has been working with influencers who
are popular with their target audience for a long time. 
  The Farmer’s Dog affiliate program  The Farmer’s Dog affiliate
program  
Personalized packages are another way to encourage customers to share
the product on social media. And when the company likes one of these
posts, they share it on their account!
  The Farmer’s Dog Instagram posts  The Farmer’s Dog Instagram
posts  
  The Farmer’s Dog Instagram posts  The Farmer’s Dog Instagram
posts  
  The Farmer’s Dog Instagram posts  The Farmer’s Dog Instagram
posts  
5. GENERATE DEMAND WITH CONTENT MARKETING
When it comes to customer acquisition, all businesses should start
with demand generation. In other words, you need to make sure that
you’re on your target audience’s radar.
The Farmer’s Dog’s main target audience is made up of dog owners
who currently feed their dogs the typical, highly processed pet foods
that are full of preservatives. 
The main task of The Farmer’s Dog’s content marketing team is to
educate this audience about the benefits of fresh food for their
dogs. 
Their educational blog, which they call the “Digest,” is a great
way to do this. 
  The Farmer’s Dog blog  The Farmer’s Dog blog  
They cover keywords like “dog throwing up yellow” or “how to
potty train a puppy,” targeting dog owners who are looking for
information. Once these people look at The Farmer’s Dog blog as an
authority, they’ll be more open to buying from them. 
For many readers, their visit to the Digest blog might be the first
time they realize that there are fresh meal options available for
their dogs.
  The Farmer’s Dog’s search keywords  The Farmer’s Dog’s
search keywords  
They also make an effort to convert blog visitors by offering them 50%
off on the first trial purchase:
  A post on The Farmer’s Dog blog  A post on The Farmer’s Dog
blog  
6. USE SOCIAL ADS TO REACH YOUR TARGET MARKET
The Farmer’s Dog also uses Facebook Ads to target a much broader
audience. Social ads offering a 50% discount have helped increase
their sales by 57%.
Their strategy includes retargeting as well as using lookalike
audiences. 
They use lots of video ads with text overlays on Facebook, as well as
photos of different breeds with the food. Cute pictures of dogs always
do well!
  The Farmer’s Dog social ads  The Farmer’s Dog social ads  
WRAPPING UP
The Farmer’s Dog does a great job of using both cutting-edge
personalization tactics and old-school discounts to make sales. 
They cast a wide net by using word-of-mouth marketing and social ads
to reach a large audience, then tailor their products to the needs of
each consumer (or their dog, to be more precise). Finally, they make
the sale by offering discounts and following up with those who don’t
respond at first. 
What do you think about their marketing tactics? Let us know what
inspires you in the comments below!
