Original page: https://www.thoughtshift.co.uk/shopify-case-study-how-we-built-a-7-figure-niche-ecommerce-store/
-------------------

SHOPIFY CASE STUDY: HOW WE BUILT A 7 FIGURE NICHE ECOMMERCE STORE
 
Shopify has become a major buzzword, and hundreds of thousands of
ecommerce stores are switching to it, as well as new entrepreneurs and
seasoned business owners who are looking for an investment. But
what’s real and what’s just hype? Wouldn’t it be great to see a
real shopify case study without fluff?
I am the CEO of Goldspot Pens, a niche ecommerce store specialising in
fountain pens and luxury fountain pen brands. I’m going to share
with you, for the very first time, how we built up our shopify store
and grew it to over 7 figures.
HOW WE BUILT OUR SHOPIFY STORE TO MAXIMISE TRAFFIC AND CONVERSIONS.
Site structure does not get talked about as much as it should in the
ecommerce space. Having the correct technical SEO implemented into
your site’s framework is crucial, as well as developing a site that
gets conversion rates above 2.00%. This can be a demanding technical
skill involving the engagement of professional marketers and seasoned
developers
 Goldspot pen Photo credit: Goldspot
SEO SITE STRUCTURE
Having a technically intelligible site structure leads to a better
understanding of your website by Google, in-turn increasing your
organic traffic. What is site structure? It’s the way your website
is organised with URLs, categories, and navigation. Site structure is
how the different pages on your site are linked together, determining
how Google bot goes through your site as well as how page rank (link
authority) spreads to the rest of your site. Typically a good site
structure for SEO is simple and delineates things into easy
categories.
What are the main types of products you sell? For good ecommerce site
structure, you want to make a silo that goes from the most general
categories to the more specific product categories and products
themselves. Use the main product types you sell as the top of the
silo. For us, this is fountain pens, fountain pen bottled ink,
notebooks and journals, and pen pouches and cases. Under fountain
pens, we have hundreds of brands of fountain pens you can easily get
too and that each acquire thousands of monthly traffic.
OPTIMISING YOUR SITE FOR CONVERSIONS
A major advancement in our niche ecommerce store (focused on fountain
pens) was optimising our site for conversions. We began from step 1,
ideation. Especially if your site is older, you need to decide if you
should have a new site developed. This involves re-imagining your
site, and is something that you can’t easily just hand off to a
developer. You need to hire a professional designer and work
one-on-one with them to get your site looking amazing.
Having a pretty site is just one element of ecommerce conversion
optimisation. There are many steps you should start proceeding with.
Begin reviewing which shopify plugins you should buy or try. Review
your checkout experience to make sure it is optimizing for additional
purchases and makes the checkout experience as easy as possible. We
saw a massive improvement by implementing a premium “suggested
products” after each purchase.
ESTABLISHING A YOUTUBE CONTENT STRATEGY.
Another major marketing channel we used for Goldspot Pens was Youtube.
Youtube fluctuates between niches, but if it is possible to develop a
coherent content strategy utilising youtube, it’s a no-brainer.
Youtube is one of the biggest social media platforms right now, and
it’s organic reach is greater than nearly any of the other platforms
(as instagram and facebook continue to lower their organic reach in
preference to their ads). We created a Youtube channel that has
acquired over 2,700,000 views and over 19,000 subscribers that love
our Goldspot Pens brand.
Youtube content is about two things: consistency and valuable content.
Consistency is simple, you need to be publishing at-least once a week
for the youtube algorithm to favor your channel. Valuable content for
your niche is harder to ideate, but it can be done relatively easily.
You know your niche better than anyone. Discover what they are
interested in learning about. One good method to do this is to
research what competitors are doing on Youtube or on their blog. What
kind of content are your competitors producing? Use this as a start
and see how to add your unique voice to the mix afterwards.
GROWING OUR INVENTORY AND ORGANIC TRAFFIC
One aspect of ecommerce seo that is rarely discussed is growing your
product inventory to increase traffic. By investing in expanding our
product catalogue, we increased our organic seo traffic by a
considerable amount, along with our fountain pen Youtube channel, SEO
content, and conversion optimisation techniques. You can immensely
grow your organic traffic by expanding your product catalogue,
creating new product and category pages that will grow your keywords
to rank for. Begin by researching category / product page keywords and
seeing which ones are less competitive but still profitable, and begin
a list of these category / product pages you want to add to your
inventory and site so as to increase your SEO. You can use competitor
analysis to find which keywords competition is using by utilising the
power of Ahrefs or SEMRush.
By intelligently growing our inventory, we significantly grew our
organic traffic and bottom-line revenue. You need to have a
professional grasp of the products and product categories that people
buy in your niche. This way you can slowly begin to expand your
inventory and reach of your Shopify store’s organic traffic.
 Pens Photo credit: Goldspot
GROWING OUR BRAND, AUDIENCE, AND EMAIL LIST
The core of a long-lasting ecommerce brand is building a consistent
audience of buyers that fall in love with your products. An easy
marketing KPI for this is keeping track of our returning-users and our
email list. You have probably heard the phase, ‘the money’s in
your list,’ and this is definitely the case for our fountain pen and
fountain pen ink niche we’ve found ourselves in.
Growing an audience of enthusiastic buyers should be a thought in each
of your marketing channels, whether that’s Youtube, other social
medias, advertising, or creating useful SEO content to rank on Google.
But one of our favorite techniques is email. You should be keeping a
database of every person’s email who orders a product from you, but,
even more than this, you should be promoting an opt-in so readers and
customers can personally input their email address to be subscribed to
your newsletter. And, after all this, you need good emails to send out
on a consistent basis. This can be promoting your content from other
channels, a written content piece just for your email subscribers, or
deals and coupons for your dedicated buyers!
Building an audience that loves your product (fountain pens for us),
and your brand, is one of the best ways to increase your bottom-line
for everything you do. Although many tasks don’t involve this, such
as SEO, once you have a solid brand and audience built, the traffic
you acquire from ecommerce SEO campaigns convert into long-lasting
buyers that love your brand.
 