Original page: https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/shopify-case-study-how-we-built-niche-ecommerce-store-powel-murunga/
-------------------
SHOPIFY CASE STUDY: HOW WE BUILT A NICHE ECOMMERCE STORE OF 7 FIGURE 

Shopify is a major buzzword, attracting hundreds of thousands of
eCommerce stores, as well as seasoned business owners and new
entrepreneurs who are looking for an investment. However, are the
stores real or they are merely hype? Wouldn’t it be possible to
experience a real case study of Shopify without a fluff?
I have invested in a niche eCommerce store with a special emphasis on
luxury fountain pen brands and fountain pens. As the CEO of the
GoldenSpot Pens, let me share with you, for the very first time, how
the Shopify store was built and grew by 7 figures.
How We Built the Shopify Store to Maximize Conversations and Traffic
The structure of a site receives less attention as much as the
eCommerce space is concerned. Having incorporated the correct
technical SEO into the framework site is important, including the
development of a site that ensures a conversion rate of more than
2.00%. This is a demanding technical skill that will involve the
involvement of seasoned developers and professional marketers.
SEO Structural Site
Organic traffic increases by having a technically intelligent site
structure with a better understanding of the Google website. The site
structure refers to the way a website is arranged with navigations,
categories, and URLs, which should be simple and delineates things
into easy categories. The top of the silo had the main products types.
In our case, it included fountain pens and bottled ink, journals and
notebooks and cases, and pen pouches. The fountain pens consist of
various hundred brands of fountain pens that can easily attract
thousands of monthly traffic.
Optimizing The Site for Conversions
The fountain pens represented our niche eCommerce store and were
optimized the site for conversions. Since our website is older, we
started with ideation. Ideation involved redeveloping our website by
re-imagining the site, We hired a professional designer and we work as
a team to make the site appear amazing and pretty. The Shopify
plug-ins are reviewed and we bought extra plug-ins. We reviewed the
check-out experience in ensuring the checkout is easy as possible. We
witnessed a massive improvement after implementing a premium
"suggested products" for every purchase made.
Establishing A YouTube Content Strategy
The GoldenSpot Pens employed YouTube as a marketing channel. Despite
the fluctuation of YouTube between niches, it was still possible to
develop a coherent strategy utilizing YouTube. YouTube remains to be
the largest social media platform at the moment and its organic reach
is higher than nearly any other platform such as Facebook and
Instagram continue to reduce their organic reach compared to the ads.
A YouTube Channel was created in which, we attracted more than 2700000
views and 20000 subscribers that demonstrated their love for
GoldenSpot Pens. YouTube is all about valuable content and
consistency. Consistency is related to publishing at least once per
week to ensure the YouTube algorithms favor our channel. The valuable
content is related to the better-understanding interest of our niche
through research. What kind of content are your competitors producing?
Growing Our Organic Traffic and Inventory
We increased our traffic and product inventory through the aspect of
eCommerce. Through the expansion of the product catalog, the organic
traffic of SEO is increased using considerable amount, along with
YouTube Channel, conversion optimization techniques, and SEO content.
One can immensely grow organic traffic through expansion of product
catalog, production of a new product, and category pages which shall
grow the keywords for ranking. Competitor analysis is employed to
assess the type of keyword competition through the utilization of the
power of SEMRush or Ahrefs.
Through intelligent growth of the inventory, the organic traffic is
grown significantly and bottom-line revenue. One is required to
possess a professional grasp of product categories and products which
people may use to purchase a niche. In the process, they will slowly
begin to expand their inventory and attain the organic traffic of the
Shopify store.
Growing Audience, Brand, and Email List
The objective of a lasting eCommerce is to create a brand with a
consistent audience of buyers who will be attracted to the products.
The KPI is the easiest marketing KPI for keeping track of the email
list and returning users. Since money is directly related to the
audience, and this is the case of our fountain pen ink and pen niche
we have found ourselves.
Building and creating an audience with great love for your product
(fountain pen), including your brand is a critical way of increasing
the bottom line for everything that is undertaken. Since diverse task
doesn't involve this process, for example, the SEO, once a solid
audience and brand are built, the acquired traffic from the eCommerce
SEO campaigns will convert into long-lasting buyers that will fall in
love with your brand.
