
Original page: https://www.optimonk.com/happy-box-10x-revenue-during-covid/
 
HOW HAPPY BOX 10X-ED THEIR REVENUE DURING COVID
How Happy Box 10x-ed Their Revenue During Covid  How Happy Box 10x-ed Their Revenue During
Covid  
  How Happy Box 10x-ed Their Revenue During Covid  How Happy Box
10x-ed Their Revenue During Covid  
Happy Box is a gift-giving delivery service. It started as a
side-project by two sisters, Hannah and Ariel Redmond, and grew into a
thriving full-time business.
During the Covid pandemic, people needed to exchange gifts without
actually seeing each other due to social distancing. Happy Box
happened to have the perfect business model to meet those needs. But
it wasn’t the only reason for their 10 times growth.
We jumped on Zoom with the co-founders of the company to find out the
key factors in their success. 
In this article, we’ll share their tactical tips and strategies that
every ecommerce business can use.
Let’s get right to it!
 Download Bonus Material: Happy Box Marketing Toolkit 
SHORTCUTS ✂️
     Introducing Happy Box
     1. Look for new market opportunities
     2. Be active on social channels where your target audience hangs out
     3. Use influencers strategically
     4. Diversify your ad spend
     5. Build brand awareness creatively
     6. Build an email list from day one
INTRODUCING HAPPY BOX
Hannah says that Happy Box is all about “allowing people to create
unique and custom gifts with the ultimate convenience.”
The emotional history of the company helps us understand both the core
idea and Happy Box’s marketing success. 
It all began when Ariel went through a breakup while off at college.
Hannah spent a day buying small gifts from several stores to make a
care package. Then she mailed it to Ariel, hoping to cheer her up.
After college, both sisters went on to pursue careers in marketing.
Years later, they still saw an unmet need for an easy way to give
personalized gifts from a distance, and this is how the idea of Happy
Box was born. 
Happy Box started as a part-time project on Etsy in 2016. A few years
later, they launched their own ecommerce store. 
  Happy Box’s Homepage  Happy Box’s Homepage  
Hannah and Ariel’s initial marketing strategy revolved around paid
search and social ads, which drove traffic to their online store.
As the Covid pandemic began and became normal, their strategy put them
in a perfect position to become a well-known brand. Consumer demand
for care packages and long-distance gift-giving rose substantially.
Happy Box’s continued use of effective marketing tactics led to a 10
times growth rate in 2021.
Let’s take a look at the marketing blueprint behind their astounding
success! 
1. LOOK FOR NEW MARKET OPPORTUNITIES
From the very start of their journey, Hannah and Ariel knew who would
see value in their offer. Namely, people like themselves!
“Our target when we launched was the millennial, female gift giver,
and that was mostly because that was us and we were solving a problem
we had,” said Hannah.
Being part of your own target audience—like Happy Box’s
founders—allows you to understand them better and know their
challenges.
  Curated Gift Boxes for sale at happybox.com  Curated Gift Boxes for
sale at happybox.com  
So they only targeted Millennial women until one day someone reached
out who needed gifts for her coworkers. 
Hannah and Ariel quickly realized that “this is a great way to grow
the business in an exponential way because your Customer Acquisition
Cost is the same while you’re able to get a significant revenue.”
So they decided to fill the need for unique gifts in the corporate
world as well. 
What’s the takeaway here for your store? Look for opportunities to
expand into new markets where your products or services can improve
people’s lives (like Happy Box did in the corporate space). 
Tapping into new consumer categories can drive massive growth.
2. BE ACTIVE ON SOCIAL CHANNELS WHERE YOUR TARGET AUDIENCE HANGS OUT
It’s crucial to deliver ads and content to your customers where they
are. So Happy Box has mostly focused on generating organic traffic
from Facebook and Instagram.
They maintain a consistent aesthetic on their social channels. All of
their design choices and copy appeal to a young, female audience.
They also regularly engage with their Instagram followers by reposting
positive Instagram stories about their products and saving them to
their Highlights. 
It’s a great way to show the delight of someone when they get a box.
And it’s incredibly persuasive social proof!
The Happy Box team realized that giveaways are a great way to reach
new people. This is especially true when they partner with another
business, like in the example below.
GRAB THE HAPPY BOX MARKETING TOOLKIT AND CHECK OUT MORE INSTAGRAM
GIVEAWAY EXAMPLES FROM THE COMPANY. 
 Download the toolkit 
They’re also active on Pinterest, “just because our consumer is
there.” The nature of Pinterest fits with their branding and
business model. 
Happy Box uses different themed boards to suggest great gift ideas for
different occasions. They have boards devoted to birthdays, care
packages for college students, and Halloween, etc. 
  Happy Box’s Pinterest page  Happy Box’s Pinterest page  
3. USE INFLUENCERS STRATEGICALLY
Happy Box has been working with influencers for years. Initially, they
would send free samples to influencers on their birthday or for a baby
shower. Hannah said this led to a sharp uptick in sales, but there was
an equally sharp drop-off soon after. 
More recently, they’ve focused on using influencers to drive traffic
at strategic times of the year. They run campaigns before important
gift-giving holidays, like Valentine’s Day or Mother’s Day. 
So their influencer’s audience can buy their products for those
upcoming occasions. This approach leads to a higher and more
protracted spike in sales. 
  An influencer’s post promoting Happy Box  An influencer’s post
promoting Happy Box  
The Happy Box co-founders also talked about the best way to choose
influencers. Spoiler: follower count isn’t everything.
When your target audience is internet-savvy, they’ll be very good at
spotting obvious advertisements and branded messaging.
If this happens, your influencer ads can backfire. 
Hannah advises working with influencers that routinely offer coupon
codes for products and services that they genuinely love. Their
followers expect it—so you can deliver your pitch to an audience who
truly trusts their influencer and is more likely to buy.
You won’t have great results if a lifestyle blogger awkwardly
parrots your content instead of sharing their true appreciation for
your product.
4. DIVERSIFY YOUR AD SPEND
Happy Box spreads their advertising dollars across several different
platforms such as paid search on Google and paid social ads on
Facebook. 
Below, see how they promote the company on Google.
  A Happy Box Google Ad  A Happy Box Google Ad  
In their Facebook ads, they use playful copy and colorful images to
grab the attention of their potential customers. Then, they offer a
coupon code to drive sales.
Spending your budget on multiple platforms helps when unavoidable
updates happen on any network or mobile software. For example, a big
privacy update in iOS 14  hurt brands that relied only on
personalized social media ads.
“You cannot possibly plan ahead without being totally punched in the
face by some of these updates,” said Hannah. 
If your company has a diverse marketing strategy, it’s easier to
roll with the punches. 
“You can’t have all your eggs in one basket,” said Hannah, “so
even before you _have to _diversify, do it.”
5. BUILD BRAND AWARENESS CREATIVELY
No one would deny that conversions are the lifeblood of ecommerce
stores. But they can’t be the only goal of a marketing strategy. You
also need to think about brand awareness. 
Conversion-focused campaigns have a high Return on Ad Spend (ROAS),
which means that the money you spend on marketing will result in
higher revenues. But they aren’t the best for brand awareness.
“Relaxing those ROAS goals,” said Hannah, “has allowed us to be
strategic about diversifying the  ad  spend.” They’ve expanded
their marketing strategy to include strategies that simply help raise
their brand’s recognition. 
The Redmond sisters, for example, present the “Totally Happy
Podcast.” 
  Totally Happy Podcast  Totally Happy Podcast  
They’ve also branched out to broadcast television, with product
placement on the Drew Barrymore Show. 
  Happy Box on The Drew Barrymore Show  Happy Box on The Drew
Barrymore Show  
Both these steps put the Happy Box brand in front of a greater
audience. 
Here are some other ideas for brand awareness campaigns:
     Start a Youtube channel
     Create a blog with great content
     Try to get featured on the local news
6. BUILD AN EMAIL LIST FROM DAY ONE
Happy Box began to build an email list as soon as their online store
was up and running—even before they had any email marketing
campaigns! 
Hannah and Ariel knew that email communication with their customers
was valuable. This user engagement strategy lets you retain users
for longer. For that reason, they made it clear that users would get
coupons if they signed up.
“Consumers are so used to it, and almost expect it,” said Hannah,
“that they’re not just going to just sign up. You have to give
them some kind of incentive.”
If you’d like to grow your list by offering incentives, try one
these popups for free:
Currently, Happy Box sends two emails a week to their subscribers.
They mix storytelling about their brand and products with discount
offers. 
For example, their welcome email immediately rewards subscribers with
a $3 off coupon.
  A Happy Box welcome email  A Happy Box welcome email  
They also offer entertaining stories or valuable information in the
emails. In the example below, they playfully pair fall drink recipes
with products from their store.
  A Happy Box marketing email  A Happy Box marketing email  
Happy Box is also currently exploring SMS-led campaigns. They collect
SMS subscribers on the checkout page: 
KEY TAKEAWAYS
Small and medium businesses can take a cue from Hannah and Ariel’s
marketing strategies at Happy Box. To recap, here are the key
marketing lessons from Happy Box’s story:
     Tailor your message to your target audience, but don’t be afraid
to branch out when opportunity knocks.
     Connect with your audience by being active on the social networks
they love.
     Run your influencer campaigns to coincide with major holidays.
     Implement a diverse marketing strategy that’s resistant to sudden
changes in the digital realm.
     Don’t (completely) sacrifice brand awareness to high-conversion
campaigns.
     Build up a big email list and reward your subscribers with
storytelling and discounts.
Make sure to check out our Happy Box Marketing Toolkit and level up
your company’s marketing messages. 
 Get the toolkit 