
Original page: https://visibilitygurus.com/case-studies/women-shoe-shopify-store-seo/
-------------------

WOMEN SHOE STORE
Increased revenue of a Shoe Store to $147,000 in 14 months by
correcting on-page, off-page, and technical optimization
Request Store Audit
OVERVIEW
Our client’s store is a specialized retailer offering diverse
footwear for all genders. With an increasing demand for online
shopping, they decided to expand their reach by launching a Shopify
website. Despite being successful in the offline market, it faced a
struggle to get the same level of reputation and recognition in the
online realm.
Thus, they contacted Visibility Gurus to get Shopify SEO services for
their store. We were determined to conquer all the challenges and find
viable solutions.
In this case study, we will explore how our services helped the store
in increasing:
     Organic Sessions
     New organic users
     Organic revenue
CHALLENGES
Clarity emerged after conducting a comprehensive SEO audit of the
store. We identified and acknowledged all the obstacles that were
impeding the store’s ranking and overall success. These were:
     INEFFICIENT STORE STRUCTURE: Neglected architecture led to slow
loading, unresponsive design, confusing navigation, poor URL
structure, and checkout problems.
     WEAK ON-PAGE OPTIMIZATION: After an SEO audit, we identified issues
with on-page optimization, including titles, headings, meta
descriptions, image alt text (unoptimized) on core landing pages, and
keyword cannibalization.
      UNIMPRESSIVE CONTENT: Thin content was confusing Google about the
context of the store. Also, clear call-to-action (CTAs) were absent,
and it had an intuitive layout.
     UNHEALTHY BACKLINK PROFILE: The store was getting lower organic
traffic because of the weak backlink profile. The links were fewer and
had low domain authority.
All these challenges were impacting the Shopify website’s
functionality, user experience, and search engine rankings. After
identifying the challenges, it was our turn to showcase our expertise
in increasing sales for the store.
SOLUTIONS - OUR APPROACH
Given the pain points identified, the Visibility Gurus team understood
that we had our work cut out for us. The site had drawbacks across all
three major components of SEO. So, we divided our work into three
segments like:
     Technical SEO
     On-Page SEO
     Off-Page SEO
TECHNICAL SEO
To recover our client from all technical issues, the VG team devised a
plan of action that started with correcting technical or structural
issues. 
1. To enhance our client’s web PAGE LOADING SPEED, we used SEO
auditing tools like Screaming Frog and SEMrush to identify duplicate
content. We resolved this issue by adding canonical tags to the
non-preferred pages’ head section.
Also, conducted Shopify image optimization of the store using image
formats like WebP and implemented lazy loading. This way, we ensured
that images loaded only when they were required.
2. CORRECTING THE LESS RESPONSIVE DESIGN of the store was very
important to us as it would enhance the user experience and is also
crucial as per Google’s mobile-first -indexing update.
So, we verified the store’s mobile-friendliness with Google’s
Mobile-Friendly Test, fixed identified issues, and enhanced
readability with shorter paragraphs, bullet points, and headings for
better accessibility.
3. To SMOOTHEN THE NAVIGATION, we used a “simple navigation menu”
Categories were chosen carefully. We placed essential information
upfront to help users quickly find the details they need before making
a purchase.
4. We crafted CLEAN, CONCISE, AND RELEVANT KEYWORDS CONTAINING URLS.
Generic auto-generated web addresses were removed, and restructured as
descriptive and relevant to the content.
One such example is “www.shoestore.com/sneakers.” We made all
these URLs mobile-friendly as well.
5. Products were organized using SHOPIFY PRODUCT TAGS. It helped in
better navigation, organization, and internal linking of the store’s
products. Optimized anchor texts and smart context links were used for
linking.
Also, we ensured an easy checkout process for users. From the
beginning to the end, we tried our best to correct each and every
step.
ON-PAGE SEO
To accompany the technical efforts, we also worked to improve the
on-page SEO. The site lacked many factors that were required for
Google to crawl and also to determine the context and significance of
the store. We started our work as per mentioned:
1. Optimizing TITLES AND META DESCRIPTIONS, headings of the product
pages. Also, added alt text for all the product images to ensure their
accessibility for the visually impaired and other users.
2. Addressed KEYWORD CANNIBALIZATION for key commercial and
product-focused keywords among core landing pages by implementing
canonical tags, merging similar pages, and removing unwanted ones.
3. To address THE ISSUE OF THIN CONTENT, we created topic clusters. We
started writing it in a long format to provide users with full
information related to the products. It also established Google’s
EEAT.
4. To get an INTUITIVE LAYOUT of the Shopify store, we added clear
call-to-action (CTAs).
OFF-PAGE SEO
During the first 6 months, we built around 100 links from relevant
authoritative fashion sites. We used trustworthy source citations and
bridged the content to expand. 
1. We ACQUIRED HIGH-QUALITY BACKLINKS from reputable and relevant
websites. Guest posting was done to let people know about the store.
2. We encouraged satisfied customers to leave POSITIVE REVIEWS AND
TESTIMONIALS on reviews platforms like Google My Business and social
media. These reviews helped in boosting the trust and credibility of
the store.
RESULTS
It would be fair to say the results were impressive. Working with the
Shoe Store, we achieved the following results:
     Organic Sessions:  +120 %
     Keywords Ranking: Placed 400+ keywords on Page #1
     Organic revenue: $147,000 in 14 months
Do You Want to See Huge Changes in Your SEO Performance?
Join over 30+ startups already growing with Visibility Gurus.
Talk to Our Experts
